Executive summary: Fitch Ratings is projecting reinsurer returns on equity of 14% in 2023 and 2024, results that reflect a reinsurance environment that has effectively returned to the pre-soft market state of providing capital protection rather than earnings protection for primary insurers. Here, Senior Director Brian Schneider reviews conditions in the current hard market, which Fitch expects to persist into 2024.
Reinsurers are hoping the profitability party will last as reinsurance pricing and structural changes to tighten terms and conditions have increased returns to above the cost of capital for the first time in a decade.
As with previous market cycles, however, all good things must come to an end as better underwriting returns will eventually attract more capital and lead to a softening of the market. But for now, the reinsurance market is enjoying the rewards.
Fitch Ratings recently revised its global reinsurance outlook to “improving” from “neutral” to reflect the sector’s underlying financial performance improvement. High price discipline driving a hard market environment, rising reinvestment yields and strong demand for reinsurance protection are likely to support earnings.
The favorable reinsurance market conditions of selective supply and growing demand continues, creating an enduring environment for improved margins into 2024. Reinsurers that have the capacity to provide coverage stand to benefit the most, including from a reinsurance-led hard market in property.
Near-term price increases continue to exceed loss-cost trends. Fitch expects the headwinds linked to the high inflation and rising interest rate environment to ease, while the negative effect of climate change on natural catastrophe claims should be priced in adequately.
Several well-positioned companies are leaning heavily into the best reinsurance underwriting environment in decades, with some acquiring additional platforms to complement their sizable organic growth opportunities. This should add further discipline to the market as more marginal capacity exits.
Additionally, a renewed interest from institutional investors on the back of better expected returns is leading to strong net inflows into insurance-linked securities (ILS) capital. More capacity from traditional and alternative sources will lead to a gradual market softening over time, potentially in 2025.
Rates Surge; Property Market Hard
Fitch expects reinsurance market hardening to persist into 2024 at the January renewals and beyond, even in the absence of sizable catastrophe losses. However, pricing and terms should be more stable than in 2023 as rate adequacy has generally been reached, following several rounds of market hardening that began in 2018. This sustained push is driven by the continued supply/demand imbalance as reinsurers hold firm to maintaining underwriting discipline, even with higher interest rates.
Net income ROE in 2023 and 2024 is expected to be about 14%, which would be above the cost of capital of 8-10% for the first time since 2014. This positive result reflects a reinsurance environment that has effectively returned to the pre-soft market state of providing capital protection for cedents, rather than earnings protection, with volatility moving back to primary insurers.
Several well-positioned companies are leaning heavily into the best reinsurance underwriting environment in decades, with some acquiring additional platforms to complement their sizable organic growth opportunities.