South Korea will extend runway safety areas and redesign infrastructure after the crash of a Jeju Air Co. flight last month that killed almost everyone on board, sparking criticism that the design of the airport might have exacerbated the accident.
Runway end safety areas at nine airports will be lengthened to 240 meters (787 feet), or the structure holding the so-called localizer — an instrument used to guide landing plane — will be changed to an easily breakable material, Korea’s transport ministry said in a statement Wednesday. Incheon International Airport, the country’s biggest hub, and Gimpo International Airport aren’t included on the list.
The move comes after the ministry’s inspection of 15 airfields that handle domestic or international flights, including Muan International Airport, where the Dec. 29 Jeju Air crash killed 179 of the 181 passengers and crew on board in the nation’s worst air disaster. The plane skidded on its belly off the runway and exploded after hitting a concrete structure supporting the localizer, minutes after the control tower warned of bird strikes.
South Korea Reviews Airport Runway Walls After Fatal Jeju Crash
While the investigation into the accident is ongoing, Korean authorities are trying to determine why the localizer structure was made of concrete, rather than on a fragile material as used in countries like the US or Canada.
Transport Minister Sangwoo Park recently said it was wrong to place such a rigid structure near the runway in Muan, regardless of the fact that the equipment was in accordance with local rules.
Officials will install an Engineered Material Arresting System — a crushable material to help stop planes — at airports where the runway safety zone can’t be extended any further. Besides the existing 15 airports, the ministry will try to apply the same rules at seven new airports under the construction, such as the second Jeju International Airport.
Photograph: Resuce and inspection members in front of the wreckage of Jeju Air Co. Flight 2216 at Muan International Airport in Muan County, South Korea, on Sunday, Dec. 29, 2024. Photo credit: SeongJoon Cho/Bloomberg

Topics
Aviation
