This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Xceedance, Chubb, and Howden.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Xceedance Names Tiwari President, EMEA & APAC
Xceedance, the Boston-based provider of technology and digital solutions, claims services, and data and analytical insights to the insurance industry, announced the promotion of Amit Tiwari to the new role of president, EMEA & APAC.
In his new role, Tiwari will focus on growing awareness of the Xceedance brand in the London, continental Europe, and Australia insurance markets and work to connect with industry professionals across those locations. Tiwari relocated to London as part of this new role and will work out of the Xceedance office, located at 8 Lloyd’s Avenue. This new position expands on Tiwari’s previous responsibilities as EVP, chief operating officer – India and Poland for Xceedance.
“Amit is a co-founder of Xceedance and one of the company’s original 13 team members, which gives him a unique perspective on the company and how we want to advance as an organization,” said Arun Balakrishnan, chairman and chief executive officer at Xceedance. “I can’t imagine a better person to fill this new strategic leadership role, and I can’t wait to see Amit expand and grow Xceedance across Europe and Australia.”
Chubb Climate+ Appoints Prunier for International Product Engagement/Services
Chubb announced that Dorothée Prunier has been appointed head of Product Engagement and Services for the international operations of Chubb Climate+, further strengthening the leadership team of the company’s global climate business unit.
In her new role, Prunier will be responsible for expanding the service capabilities of Chubb Climate+ in 51 countries and territories outside North America for clients looking to build resiliency and support their transition to a low carbon economy. She will also drive both internal and external engagement as Chubb Climate+ develops and rolls out new products. Prunier, who has served as head of Environmental Risks for Overseas General Insurance since 2018, will retain those responsibilities.
The appointment is effective immediately. Prunier will remain based in Paris and will continue to report to Mark Homan, division president, International Property and Casualty for Overseas General Insurance.
Prunier has more than 20 years of experience in the insurance industry. She joined Chubb in 2007 as environmental risks manager for its Continental Europe, Middle East and North Africa region. She began her career as a loss control engineer for a major international carrier before managing technical lines and environmental risks for the French Federal Society of Insurers. Prunier holds a Master of Business Administration from La Sorbonne in Paris.
Prunier’s appointment follows the launch in January of Chubb Climate+, the company’s global climate business unit. Chubb Climate+ will provide a full spectrum of insurance products and services to businesses engaged in developing or employing new technologies and processes that support the transition to a low-carbon economy. It also provides risk management and resiliency services to help those managing the impact of climate change.
Matt Hardy, leader of Chubb Climate+ for Overseas General Insurance, said: “Dorothée has many years of experience working with environmental and industrial safety risks and her impressive background and expertise make her a natural fit for our expanding Chubb Climate+ team.”
Howden Taps Aon’s Green for Property Team
Howden, the London-based global insurance group, announced the appointment of Robert Green as executive director, Property, effective immediately.
The appointment reflects Howden’s continued investment in expertise for its well-established Property division, particularly for the benefit of its UK and European clients with large and complex property risks. In his role, Green will service companies across both Howden’s Specialty and Retail divisions. Green is based in London and reports to Peter Naylor, executive director in the Property team
Green brings with him over 22 years of industry experience, 16 of which were spent in the UK multinational sector. He joins Howden from Aon, where he held the role of broking director in its UK Retail Broking division. Prior to this, he worked for Marsh in the position of vice president, Placement.
With an emphasis on property program design and placement, Green has a strong track record of broader strategic market engagement across client portfolios, including high end automotive, high street banking, large grocery retailers and the chemical industry.
Green will work closely with Adam Reed, managing director, Retail Large & Complex Risks, and use his specialist knowledge to introduce cutting-edge innovations that address a wide array of complex risks, not only driving growth internally, but also delivering optimal outcomes for clients.
“Robert’s industry expertise and experience represents a significant benefit to our clients with complex property risks and his appointment further underpins our close collaboration with Howden’s Retail Large & Complex Risks team for seamless client service delivery. We welcome him to the team,” commented Edward Longfield, head of Property, Howden.

Topics
Property
Aon
Chubb
