This edition of International People Moves details appointments at the brokers Marsh and Clear Group.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Marsh Names Fraser as Int’l Corporate & Commercial Leader
Marsh, the insurance broker, risk adviser and Marsh McLennan subsidiary, announced the appointment of Alistair Fraser to the newly created role of International Corporate & Commercial leader.
Effective Jan. 1, 2025, Fraser will report to Flavio Piccolomini, CEO, Marsh McLennan International, and continue to be based in London.
Alistair Brighton will succeed Fraser as CEO, Corporate & Commercial UK. Also effective Jan. 1, 2025 and subject to regulatory approval, Brighton will report to Chris Lay, CEO, Marsh McLennan UK and continue to be a member of Marsh’s UK Executive Committee.
As International Corporate & Commercial leader, Fraser will focus on developing Marsh’s services and solutions for small and mid-market organisations across International, which includes Asia, Europe, India, Middle East and Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, Pacific, and the UK. He will also work closely with leaders across Marsh McLennan to deliver tailored health and workplace benefits solutions according to client size, industry specialism and geographical reach.
Fraser joined Marsh in 2007 and brings over 25 years of experience to his new role. He has led Marsh’s corporate business in the UK since 2018 and assumed responsibility for Marsh Commercial in 2022. Previously, Fraser held senior leaderships positions in the UK, Singapore, and Indonesia.
As CEO of Corporate & Commercial UK, Brighton will have overall responsibility for Marsh’s small and mid-market clients across the UK. Specializing in the risk and insurance needs of organizations within this segment, Brighton has over 20 years of experience in development and leadership roles, beginning his career at Marsh in 2004. He is currently UK sales leader for Marsh, a position he has held since January 2022.
Clear Group Appoints Chisholm as Sales and Marketing Director
The Clear Group, the London-based independent insurance broker, announced the appointment of Christy Chisholm as group sales and marketing director, also joining the Clear Group board.
Prior to joining Clear, Chisholm held various senior leadership positions within the financial sector, most recently as commercial lines director for Premium Credit Ltd. where she focused on growing and driving broker partnerships.
With experience that spans over two decades, Chisholm will help lead Clear through its next stage of development and growth, focusing on driving its UK retail business.
“It’s a great accolade for us to have Christy on our senior leadership team. She is an exceptional leader, who cares passionately about customers, and helping manage their risks,” commented Phil Williams, group chief commercial officer & managing director UK Retail. “She has a track record of leading through change, driving growth and delivering simplification.”

Topics
Commercial Lines
Leadership
