This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Howden Singapore, Liberty Specialty Markets and OdysseyRe.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Lim Promoted to CEO of Howden Singapore
Howden, the London-based international insurance broker, announced that it has promoted Jenny Lim to the role of CEO of Howden Singapore, effective this month.
Lim joined Howden in 2015 as executive director, head of Financial Lines, and as a member of the Howden Singapore Executive Committee. Under her leadership, the Financial Lines division has trebled in size, expanded into the sub-specialisms of financial institutions, cyber, healthcare and M&A insurance.
In her new role, Lim will continue to drive Howden Singapore’s ambitious growth agenda by building on its strong reputation and empowering her colleagues to deliver innovative and seamless solutions for clients.
Since Lim joined Howden — alongside incumbent CEO Goh Chye Huat (who will remain regional CEO for Howden Asia), and three other executive directors, Gerard Lee, Primus Lee and Gracy Khoo – the business has experienced transformational, mostly organic, growth, said Howden in a statement.
Its growth has been driven by specialities that include financial lines, employee benefits and real estate, investing in data and technology, and always focusing on building partnerships with clients for the long-term.
Howden said that Singapore is its largest retail broking operation in Asia, and it is home to Howden Asia’s regional headquarters.
Liberty Specialty Markets Hires Lim as Head of Aviation Claims
Liberty Specialty Markets (LSM), part of Liberty Mutual Insurance Group, has appointed Peng Lim to the newly created role of head of Aviation Claims.
Lim is currently international law firm Kennedys’ Singapore-based global head of Aviation, she will relocate to London reporting to Mike Gillett, LSM’s chief claims officer. She takes up her new role in November.
Chief among Lim’s responsibilities will be leading LSM’s claims proposition for aviation and supporting the growth of the insurer’s aviation book.
Lim joined Kennedys in 2014 to became the firm’s global head of Aviation. She was formerly with another major international law firm, Clyde & Co.
“As an extremely high-profile figure within our industry, she brings unrivalled knowledge of the sector – knowledge that will benefit our clients not only at the point of claim but throughout their relationship with LSM,” commented Gillett.
OdysseyRe Names Everest’s Finnegan as Head of U.S. General Casualty Treaty
Odyssey Reinsurance Co. (OdysseyRe) announced that Michael Finnegan has re-joined the company as senior vice president and head of U.S. General Casualty treaty, succeeding Steve Van de Graaf, who is retiring after 27 years of service.
Finnegan had previously served as a vice president in OdysseyRe’s Casualty underwriting team from 2002 through 2007, and has more than 30 years of experience in the re/insurance industry. He reports to Brian Quinn, CEO of OdysseyRe’s North America Division.
Finnegan most recently served as senior vice president and head of Wholesale Casualty at Everest Insurance Co. after spending more than a decade in various senior positions at Liberty Mutual, including president and chief operating officer of Liberty Mutual Reinsurance, chief underwriting officer at Liberty International Underwriters and president of Ironshore’s Specialty Casualty Division. His career began at Aetna Casualty & Surety, followed by several reinsurance companies including OdysseyRe.
“Steve Van de Graaf has had a long, distinguished career at Odyssey, which includes bringing our general casualty treaty portfolio to an all-time high in terms of gross premiums written in 2021. We are grateful for his dedication and many contributions over the past three decades,” Quinn said.
“We are pleased to welcome Michael back to the OdysseyRe family. His extraordinary background, and his blend of casualty expertise, in both the primary and reinsurance markets, will be highly beneficial to our clients,” Quinn added.
Finnegan holds a bachelor of arts degree from the University of Connecticut. He is based in Stamford, Conn.

Topics
USA
Claims
Aviation
Casualty
