This edition of International People Moves details appointments at broker Miller and CNA Hardy.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Miller Launches Dedicated Bloodstock and Livestock Team, Led by WTW’s Horne
Miller, the London-based independent specialist re/insurance broker, announced the launch of a new dedicated Bloodstock and Livestock team. The new team will be led by Archie Horne, who has taken up the role of head of Bloodstock & Livestock and will report to Katie Small, head of Private Clients.
Joining from Willis Towers Watson, where for his last two-and-a-half years he held the same position, Horne brings expert knowledge and technical expertise to this highly specialized line of business.
He is joined by Florence Crowhurst, who assumes the role of account executive, Harry Findlay and Ben Roe, who both join as account handlers/brokers.
The team, who all most recently held positions in WTW’s Bloodstock and Livestock team, will bring their collective experience to develop, manage and produce a comprehensive range of products to support the insurance needs of livestock producers and owners worldwide, with a particular focus on the UK, North America, Australia and Asia. In addition to focusing on traditional livestock producers, the team will target exotic animal owners, such as aquariums, game parks and zoos, where it has significant expertise.
“In this highly specialist insurance field, clients require informed advice and we are pleased to launch a team that has deep expertise at its core, led by Archie, whose career has spanned working on stud farms in Australia, racing yards in England and being a member of the Queen’s Life Guard,” said Small.
“The team brings a strong technical understanding of all aspects of this class, and we see natural synergies with our Private Clients and Sports & Entertainment teams and will be working closely together to serve the needs of all our clients,” she added.
“I am absolutely delighted to have joined Miller. It is investing significantly in developing new capabilities and its innovative approach is impressive. I’m joined by three highly capable colleagues: Florence, who has worked in the bloodstock and livestock industries in the UK, France and Argentina; Harry, who ran a dairy farm in Scotland; and Ben, who has dedicated market experience,” commented Horne. “Working together, we look forward to drawing on our combined skills, experience and expertise to grow the business.”
CNA Hardy Expands Teams Across Various Lines in Continental Europe
CNA Hardy has announced a series of appointments to its specialist lines of business as the company pursues ambitious growth plans in Europe.
In Cologne, Oliver Tobies joins as Life Science & Technology underwriting manager. He will support the expansion of the company’s Life Science & Technology specialisms in the German market. Tobies’ prior experience includes roles at Hiscox and Chubb.
Jasper Knoch also joins the Cologne office as financial lines senior underwriter. In this newly created role, Knoch’s principal focus will be the expansion of CNA Hardy’s financial institutions portfolio in Germany. Knoch joins from Willis Towers Watson.
In Milan, Stefano Magni joins as financial institutions senior technical underwriter. Magni will drive the growth of the company’s financial lines specialist area in the Italian market. Magni joins from AIG.
In Copenhagen, Kennie Dyreborg-Kragh joins as the head of Financial Lines for the Nordics region. He will be developing the company’s financial lines business in the Nordics while also working on cyber and professional indemnity offerings. Dyreborg-Kragh’s prior experience includes roles at both Codan and AIG.
In Amsterdam, Patrick Knobbe joins as technology underwriter, where he will manage the growth and development of CNA Hardy’s specialist technology business. Knobbe joins from SiriusPro. Sharmila Nandpersad also joins the Amsterdam office as commercial lines underwriting assistant. Nandpersad joins from Allianz.
Amandine Motte, general manager Continental Europe, commented: “I am delighted to welcome, Oliver, Jasper, Stefano, Kennie, Patrick and Sharmila to CNA Hardy. They bring a wealth of experience and expertise that will enable us to improve and expand our underwriting capabilities across the markets, helping us to provide exceptional service to our clients and supporting brokers.”

Topics
Europe
Agribusiness
Willis Towers Watson
