This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Beazley and Gallagher Re.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Beazley Announces MacCabe Retirement, Wheeler and Pereira Promotions for Int’l Management Liability
Beazley announced that Catherina MacCabe, focus group leader International Management Liability (IML), Specialty Risk, is to retire and that Oliver (Oli) Wheeler will succeed her as focus group leader from July 1, 2022. Emma Pereira has also been promoted to product leader for the team.
MacCabe has led the IML team at Beazley for over five years, building it up to be a leading IML team in the London market and growing the firm’s book of directors & officers (D&O) and management liability business in Europe, Asia and Latin America. She will stay at Beazley over the remainder of the year to ensure a smooth transition to the new leadership team.
Wheeler joined Beazley in 2021, and prior to this, he was D&O practice leader at Aon London. Wheeler previously had underwriting and leadership roles with Chubb, AXIS and Liberty, and has successfully managed financial lines portfolios in New York and Madrid.
“Catherina will leave a legacy of underwriting excellence, and under her leadership, the IML team has gone from strength to strength. I will miss her greatly, as will her colleagues, brokers, clients and peers. I wish her a very well-deserved retirement,” commented Gerard Bloom, head of International, Specialty Risks.
Gallagher Re Appoints 6 Senior Execs for APAC Region
Gallagher Re, the global reinsurance broker, announced the appointments of six senior executives in the Asia Pacific region, effective immediately.
This follows Gallagher Re’s announcement of Heather Bone as its new CEO in Australia in February, and wider range of senior appointment hires within its Australian operations.
“Earlier this year we announced the appointment of our new Australian CEO, Heather Bone, as well as the expansion of our Australian team with a raft of key client-focused hires. These latest senior appointments build out our strategic analytical, actuarial and client engagement capabilities across the wider Asia Pacific region, which continues to be a significant growth area for Gallagher Re,” commented Mark Morley, managing director of Asia Pacific at Gallagher Re.

Topics
Liability
New Markets
A.J. Gallagher
