This edition of International People Moves details appointments at AXA XL, Marsh and The Hartford.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
AXA XL Names Bewlay as Chief Executive Reinsurance, Succeeding Cooper
AXA XL announced Nancy Bewlay has been appointed as chief executive Reinsurance with immediate effect.
Bewlay assumes the role from Charles Cooper who, after more than 20 years as a senior executive in the company’s Reinsurance business, has decided to step down.
In her new role, Bewlay will lead AXA XL’s Reinsurance business which with a global footprint and a strong balance sheet is among the world’s leading reinsurers, offering solutions that include property, casualty, and specialty reinsurance.
Bewlay has more than 30 years of industry experience and has held numerous senior roles at XL Catlin and then AXA XL. Most latterly, she held the post of global chief underwriting officer responsible for AXA XL’s underwriting governance, pricing, and P&L globally. She joined XL Catlin (now AXA XL) in 2017 as the global chief underwriting officer for Casualty. Prior she served as head of Underwriting for Casualty at Swiss Re, leading the underwriting and actuarial treaty teams in the U.S. and Canada. Between 2011 and 2013, Bewlay was president and chief executive officer of C.V. Starr & Co. (California).
“I am delighted that Nancy will be taking on a new role in my team leading our Reinsurance business. We have an extremely talented team across reinsurance and there is real opportunity to grow profitability in this market. Nancy is an accomplished leader and her extensive experience in portfolio management, underwriting governance and pricing will ensure the continued performance of our reinsurance book,” commented Scott Gunter, AXA XL’s CEO.
“I would like to take this opportunity to warmly thank Charles for his dedication and pragmatism in leading our reinsurance business, he has played an important part in our AXA XL journey, and we wish him the best for the future,” Gunter continued.
Marsh Promotes 3 for Affinity Business
Insurance broker Marsh announced senior appointments to its Affinity business, International Division. Effective immediately, Rebecca Bleek is appointed as affinity leader, Middle East & North Africa (MENA); Leo Gibbons as placement leader, International Affinity; and Sam Suen as business digital strategy leader, International Affinity.
Marsh’s affinity business provides insurance solutions that are aligned to clients’ brands, cultures, and values and are tailored to customer, member, and/or franchisees’ interests. These solutions are designed for clients to enhance relationships, create additional value, and foster greater loyalty.
Marsh’s International Division comprises Africa, Asia, Continental Europe, Latin America & the Caribbean, Middle East and North Africa, Pacific, and the UK & Ireland regions.
In this newly created position, Bleek will lead Marsh’s Affinity colleagues across MENA in providing innovative solutions that support Marsh’s clients in growing their businesses through their affinity offerings. In addition to her new role, Bleek will continue to lead Marsh’s Commercial and Consumer business in the United Arab Emirates, a position she has held since 2019. Bleek is based in Dubai and reports to to Ayman El Hout, CEO, Marsh UAE.
In his new role, Gibbons will work with Marsh’s International Affinity business to develop services and solutions that support clients as they adapt to changing customer demands. He was previously Programmes Business Development Lead for two years and was responsible for the implementation of Marsh’s third-party managing general agent engagement strategy for specialty business. Based in London, he reports to Andrew Ferguson, chief sales officer – Affinity, International.
As business digital leader, International Affinity, Suen will execute digital strategies that enrich Marsh’s International Affinity capabilities and assist clients in realizing their business objectives through insurance and digital solutions. With more than 15 years of experience in the business transformation and management consulting space, he has led digital engagement for Affinity across the Asia region since 2019. He is based in London and reports to and Phil Hobson, affinity leader, International.
Hartford Names Generali’s Mather as Head of Int’l Financial Lines
The Hartford has named Keith Mather head of Financial Lines for its International business. In this role, Mather will be responsible for building a sustainable and profitable book of international retail and wholesale financial lines business, as well as driving long-term growth and success for the company’s global specialty sector. Based in London, he will report to The Hartford’s International CUO, Colin Sprott.
Prior to joining The Hartford, Mather served as UK head of Financial Lines for Generali, where he provided portfolio balance and risk reductions across multiple industries and geographies. Earlier in his career, he was European head of Financial Lines for Liberty Specialty Market, responsible for portfolio diversification, product growth and talent development across 11 offices in Europe and the Middle East. Mather holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Risk Management from Glasgow Caledonian University, and currently resides in London.

Topics
Reinsurance
AXA XL
