This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Everest Insurance and Sompo International.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Everest Insurance Names Industry Veteran Laval as Chief Commercial Officer, Int’l Division
Everest Insurance, the insurance division of specialty re/insurer Everest Re Group Ltd., announced that Bruno Laval will join the company as chief commercial officer for its International division, effective June 26, 2023.
He will be based in Madrid, Spain, and will report to Adam Clifford and Jason Keen, co-leads of Everest Insurance International.
In his new role, Laval will be responsible for Everest’s international market and distribution strategy with a focus on diversifying the international insurance portfolio, identifying new growth opportunities, and advancing the company’s distribution analytics and market intelligence capabilities.
Laval joins Everest with more than three decades of industry expertise and in-depth knowledge of property/casualty, commercial and specialty lines. Most recently, he served as a partner and advisory board member to iMeureka.
Prior to that, he was regional manager for the European Growth Markets and chief distribution officer for Europe, Asia and the Pacific for AXA XL, where he focused on driving profitable growth, and successfully implementing go-to-market strategies with brokers and clients. Additionally, Laval has held a variety of leadership roles with increasing responsibility at XL Catlin.
He received his master’s degree in mechanical engineering from the Arts et Métiers ParisTech — Ecole Nationale Supérieure d’Arts et Métiers.
Sompo Int’l Names SiriusPoints’ Cramér Manhem to European Board of Directors
Sompo International, the commercial and consumer property/casualty re/insurer, announced the appointment of Monica Cramér Manhem to Sompo International’s subsidiary board of directors for SI Insurance (Europe), SA. She will serve as independent non-executive director.
Cramér Manhem recently retired from SiriusPoint International, the largest reinsurance company in Scandinavia, where she served as CEO. With nearly 40 years of experience in the insurance and reinsurance industry, Cramér Manhem is a seasoned industry executive. She joined Sirius International in 1985 and has been a director of the board between 2014-2022. She brings broad expertise across underwriting, communications, analytics, strategic and regulatory topics.
“I’m delighted to welcome Monica to SIIE’s Board of Directors. Her wealth of experience and knowledge of our industry, including the regulatory environment, will be instrumental as we continue to strengthen and expand our market position across Europe to meet the needs of our clients and trading partners,” commented Julian James, CEO, Global Markets, Commercial P&C and chairman of SI Insurance (Europe), SA.

Topics
Commercial Lines
Europe
