This edition of International People Moves details appointments at re/insurers Beazley and RenaissanceRe Holdings, as well as insurance broker Miller.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Beazley Appoints New Head of Cyber Services – International
Specialist insurer Beazley has appointed Christian Taube as its new head of Cyber Services – International, continuing the expansion of its cyber team this year.
Before joining Beazley, Taube was chief information security officer at Contentserv and, prior to that, he built the information security practice at DataGuard. Based out of Beazley’s Munich office, he will be responsible for further developing and enhancing Beazley’s cyber risk management and incident response functions.
Taube began his role on March 7, 2022, joining the Beazley team in Germany. His recruitment follows the recent appointments of Russ Cohen as head of U.S. Cyber Services and Bala Larson as head of Client Experience in February.
“When you consider the ever-changing risk landscape, and specifically the sharp increase of ransomware in recent years, it is fair to say that maintaining good cyber hygiene should be a key priority for all businesses today,” commented Raf Sanchez, global head of Cyber Services. “Business leaders also need to be confident that their risk management tools are up to the job, to further reduce their risk of falling victim to an attack.”
RenaissanceRe Announces Senior ESG and Climate Roles
RenaissanceRe Holdings Ltd. announced key appointments that advance its environmental, social, and governance (ESG) strategy, which is centered on promoting climate resilience, closing the protection gap, and inducing positive societal change.
In furtherance of this strategy, Kevin J. O’Donnell, RenRe’s president and CEO, has accepted the role of chair of ClimateWise. Acting in partnership with the University of Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership, ClimateWise, brings together reinsurers, insurers, brokers and industry service providers to promote a systematic response to climate change across the financial system.
RenaissanceRe also announced several key roles at the company, which are focused on ESG:
“Climate change is one of the most complex challenges faced by the world and our business. As a reinsurer, we believe that we play an important role in managing climate risk while helping facilitate the transition to a lower carbon economy. I am honored to chair ClimateWise and look forward to working with leaders across our industry and the University of Cambridge to strengthen our collective response to this important issue,” commented O’Donnell.
Barr Joins Miller’s Specialist Credit and Political Risks Team
Miller, the London-based independent specialist re/insurance broker, announced the appointment of Andrew Barr to its Credit and Political Risks (CPRI) team.
Barr previously worked as a credit & political risk insurance broker at Texel Finance Ltd. (October 2017-October 2021) and Marsh (January 2011-September 2017), according to his LinkedIn profile.
He specializes in helping financial institution (FI) clients obtain risk mitigating and regulatory compliant credit insurance solutions, as well as political risk insurance for both FI and corporate clients.

Topics
Cyber
