This edition of International People Moves details appointments at AXA XL Reinsurance and the MGA Rokstone.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
AXA XL Reinsurance Promotes Twite to CEO, Bermuda
AXA XL Reinsurance announced it has appointed Mark Twite as chief executive officer, Bermuda, effective Oct. 3.
In his new role, Twite will be responsible for the strategic growth of the business in Bermuda, ensuring capital is effectively deployed in order to drive a stable and sustainable portfolio as part of AXA XL reinsurance division.
Prior to his current role as chief financial officer, he held a number of senior positions including head of Strategic Business Finance for the AXA XL Division, while also maintaining his role as head of Assumed Reinsurance Finance.
Twite is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and he qualified from Deloitte & Touche in 1998 while working in their London Insurance practice. He holds a Bachelor of Science in Economics from the London School of Economics.
“Mark’s 30-year experience in the industry coupled with his 18 year tenure at AXA XL in Bermuda places him in the ideal position to deliver for our global clients and brokers in this key market and lead our talented team,” commented Nancy Bewlay, CEO, Reinsurance.
MGA Rokstone Hires Engineering Team from Globe Underwriting
Rokstone, London-based speciality re/insurance managing general agency that is part of the Aventum Group, has centralized its Power, Construction and Engineering teams, hiring three senior engineering underwriting underwriters from Globe Underwriting.
Peter Rossell, Dan Watson and Anthony Palmer, all senior engineering underwriters at Globe Underwriting have joined Rokstone. The trio join Ian Green, a market stalwart for primary power generation, and David Turner, a leading construction underwriter with over 40 years’ experience. Together they have a combined 150 years of underwriting experience.
Rossell was head of Engineering at Globe Underwriting. He has 43 years’ experience having served as a senior engineering underwriter with leading firms including Pioneer, Beazley and Amtrust. Watson was the senior engineering underwriter at Globe. He joins with more than 15 years’ experience and previously held senior positions as an engineering underwriter at Pioneer and RSA. Palmer was an engineering underwriter at Globe. He has over 10 years’ experience and previously worked at Pioneer and Canopius.
Rokstone said the team offer brokers a highly compelling facility with a consolidated maximum PML line of US$27.5 million. Operational power generation has a typical maximum line of US$5 million, deployed on non-proportional structures. Capacity is drawn from a number of leading A-rated carriers.
Ian Anson, managing director, Rokstone commented: “There are potentially large opportunities opening up in both the power and construction markets in 2023. By bringing together this team of market leading talent, we believe that we are now a ‘go to’ market in both these specialty lines. We continue to enjoy excellent long-term relationships with our carriers; their ongoing commitment to us is a strong vote of confidence both in the potential in the market, and in our proposition.”
With offices in the UK, Europe, US, Asia, Africa and the Middle East, Rokstone is currently underwrites US$800 million in GWP in several specialty lines including Property, Power Generation, Marine, Aviation, Terrorism & Political Violence, Construction & Engineering, and Liability.

Topics
Underwriting
Reinsurance
Insurance Wholesale
AXA XL
