This edition of International People Moves details appointments at SiriusPoint and Everest Insurance.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
SiriusPoint International Managing Agency Names Castel’s Williams as Chief Risk Officer
SiriusPoint Ltd., the Bermuda-based specialty re/insurer, announced the appointment of Anthony Williams as chief risk officer for SiriusPoint International Managing Agency (SIMA) and its international business.
Williams, who will start on Aug. 19, joins SiriusPoint from Castel Underwriting Agencies Ltd., where he served as chief risk officer.
Williams has over 20 years of experience working across multiple sectors in the insurance industry, including insurance carriers, the MGA sector, and the Lloyd’s market. He has held various leadership roles in risk management, serving as IQUW’s interim chief risk officer, and as CNA Hardy’s chief risk officer.
Williams will report to Andreas Kull, chief risk officer for the group.
He has previously chaired the Lloyd’s Market Association’s Committee of Actuaries in the Lloyd’s Market (CALM) and was a member of its Chief Risk Officer Committee.
“Anthony brings many years of leadership experience, a great track record in risk management, and a deep understanding of the market,” Kull said. “He will add further strength and capability to the international business at SiriusPoint and play a key role in further developing the group’s risk management framework.”
Everest Promotes Townsend to Chief Ceded Reinsurance Officer
Everest Insurance, the insurance division of Everest Group Ltd., has promoted Harry Townsend to chief ceded reinsurance officer, leading the Ceded Re strategy for the global division. He will be based in London, reporting to Mark Maritzen, Everest Insurance global chief underwriting officer.
Townsend joined Everest in January 2024 as head of Ceded Reinsurance, International, from Liberty Mutual Insurance where he most recently served as global reinsurance casualty division manager. During his decade-long tenure at Liberty, he served in a variety of roles with increasing responsibility focused on underwriting, casualty and specialty reinsurance purchasing and portfolio management.
“Harry has established a standard of operational excellence across our international Ceded Re business, bringing an even greater level of engagement with reinsurers,” said Maritzen. “Everest is focused on deepening our commitment to our global reinsurance partners, and Harry brings both a strong network of relationships and business acumen that will help us expand those partnerships.”

Topics
Talent
Reinsurance
Human Resources
