This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Optio Group, Everest Re, and the MGA Pen Underwriting.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Robinson Named CEO of Optio Group
Optio Group, the London-based specialty MGA, announced the appointment of David Robinson as chief executive officer, effective immediately.
Robinson was initially appointed by Optio in March 2022 as managing director and his promotion reflects his work to optimize operational excellence across the group’s underwriting, claims and data support functions. He has also been at the forefront of driving Optio’s expansion across multiple lines and geographies, notably in establishing Optio Re MENA Ltd, which began trading February 2023.
He will continue to report to executive chairman Matthew Fosh and his appointment follows a strong year of growth in revenue and profitability for Optio Group.
Robinson has had more than three decades of experience in the industry, including 25 years at Chubb and then ACE, where he ultimately became regional president, UK & Ireland, with responsibility for property/casualty, accident and health, specialty personal lines and high net worth personal lines. He joined Optio in 2022 from The Hartford, where he was head of international financial lines.
Bogardus Named Chief Executive of Everest Re Singapore Branch
Everest Reinsurance, the reinsurance division of Everest Re Group Ltd., announced that Kevin Bogardus, head of Business Development for Asia Pacific, has been promoted to chief executive of Everest Reinsurance Co., Singapore branch.
Bogardus will continue to report to Artur Klinger. He will succeed Nitin Talwalkar, who is departing the company.
In his expanded role, Bogardus will oversee operations for Everest Reinsurance across all of Asia Pacific from the regional Singapore office. He will also continue to lead the strategic expansion of Everest Reinsurance’s Asia Pacific business, identifying opportunities for regional growth and portfolio diversification.
Bogardus’ reputation is based on three decades of experience building and leading successful insurance businesses in Asia at major global insurance and reinsurance companies. Prior to joining Everest, he was country president at Chubb Singapore, and also served as country president for Chubb China where he oversaw ACE’s acquisition of Chubb China and led the company’s profitable business expansion in China, while at the same time establishing two new branches in Beijing and Guangzhou.
Prior to that, Bogardus established a first-of-its-kind direct insurance underwriting syndicate for ACE within Lloyd’s China and served as chief advisor and board director for Huatai P&C Insurance Co. Ltd. He graduated summa cum laude from Tufts University where he double majored in International Relations and Asian Studies.
“Since Kevin joined Everest last year, he has leveraged his deep network and partnerships throughout the region and successfully led the growth, diversification, and profitability of our Everest Reinsurance Asia Pacific portfolio,” said Artur Klinger, head of International Reinsurance.
Pen Underwriting Promotes Simmonds to MD, Public Sector Division
Pen Underwriting announced that Seb Simmonds has been appointed managing director of its Public Sector division, which includes the specialist business Risk Management Partners (RMP), with effect from May 1, 2023, subject to regulatory approval.
Simmonds, who is currently managing director of Risk Managed Commercial at Pen – a role he has held since 2020 – will take on the strategic and operational leadership of the division, upon the retirement of current divisional MD Nick Colyer, and join the Pen executive team.
Having been with Pen since its very beginning, Simmonds brings 20 years’ experience to the role, the vast majority of which have been in the specialist field of schemes and managing general agents. Within Pen, he has held various leadership roles, including managing the Delegated Commercial team and its 80 sub-delegated arrangements across property and liability schemes for five years.
Pen confirmed it will retain the expertise, insight and experience of Colyer in an advisory capacity, as he takes on the role of chair of RMP.
“Seb’s proven leadership capabilities, extensive knowledge of Pen and great reputation with our capacity partners, made him a natural successor to Nick as leader of our large Public Sector division,” commented Tom Downey, CEO of Pen Underwriting. “In a relatively short period, Seb has transformed the Risk Managed Commercial business in terms of capacity, operations and underwriting performance – and these disciplines will be equally crucial to the ongoing success of our public sector, higher education and social housing business.”
Downey thanked Colyer for his leadership in the public sector business and for being “the driving force behind RMP’s exponential growth since becoming MD of the business back in 2012. We’re delighted to be retaining his specialist knowledge and wisdom in his capacity as chair of RMP.”

Topics
Underwriting
