This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Gallagher Re and Markel.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Gallagher Re Appoints Rudden as Head of Green Solutions
Gallagher Re announced the appointment of Richard Rudden as head of Green Solutions, a newly created role with the aim of developing insurance and reinsurance solutions to assist clients in facilitating their energy transition.
With prior experience in energy insurance roles at both SiriusPoint and Aspen, Rudden possesses a deep understanding of the urgent need for climate solutions and the role that insurance and reinsurance will play in this, said Gallagher Re in a statement.
Reporting into Gallagher Re’s head of Marine, Energy & Aviation, Nick Croxford, he will work closely with Gallagher’s wider climate risks teams, across its global business, which are focused on developing solutions that help clients with their carbon emissions reduction and climatic solutions, while developing strategies for climate mitigation and adaptation.
“The insurance and reinsurance ecosystem plays a significant role in driving positive change, and Richard is committed to finding innovative solutions that will both facilitate and kickstart the flow of investment into energy transition technologies/ sustainable energy solutions,” Croxford said.
“As a business, we are determined to be at the forefront of tackling the climate problems we face, and Richard’s appointment is a testament to our dedication to this cause,” Croxford added.
“I firmly believe that insurance and reinsurance has a crucial role to play in attracting the necessary capital into energy transition technologies,” Rudden commented. “Only through understanding the barriers to entry for the required levels of investment can we begin to create meaningful insurance and reinsurance solutions and facilitate change. This as an extremely important challenge to the industry and one which needs to be faced head on.”
Rudden will be based in Gallagher’s London headquarters.
Markel Taps BHSI’s Gebran as Head of Casualty in MENA Region
Markel, the insurance operation within Markel Group Inc., announced the appointment of Jennifer Gebran as head of Casualty for the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region, with immediate effect.
In her new role, Gebran will be responsible for developing the region’s casualty underwriting strategy – one centred on enhanced underwriting capabilities and the delivery of profitable growth. She will also be tasked with developing stronger relationships with new and existing brokers, other distribution partners and clients, to help establish Markel as a market leader for casualty underwriting in the MENA region.
Gebran will play a key role in supporting Markel’s plans to strategically expand its footprint in the MENA region, by establishing a strong onshore presence with a highly experienced and empowered underwriting team.
Gebran joins Markel from Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance, where she served as assistant vice president in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE). With more than 13 years of underwriting experience, specializing in the Gulf, Middle East and North Africa, Gebran brings a wealth of expertise in the casualty and contingency facultative reinsurance sector, Markel said.
Prior to her tenure at Berkshire Hathaway, Gebran spent 11 years with Liberty Specialty Markets, where she progressed from underwriting assistant to assistant vice president. At Liberty Specialty Markets, some of her principal duties included managing underwriters and spearheading growth initiatives into new geographies, with a focus on Saudi Arabia and North Africa. She began her underwriting career at Jardine Lloyd Thompson in 2008.
Based in Dubai, Gebran will report to Max Robbie, senior executive officer at Markel, Dubai. Her appointment follows the formation of a new International Casualty team within the Specialty division last year, led by Graeme Ivory, director of International Casualty.

Topics
Casualty
A.J. Gallagher
