This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Generali Global Corporate & Commercial (GC&C) and the broker Miller.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Generali Global Corporate & Commercial Taps Allianz’s Moro as Head of Cyber Insurance
Generali Global Corporate & Commercial (GC&C) announced the appointment of Michela Moro as the new head of Cyber Insurance, effective Dec. 16. She is stepping into the role previously held by the now retired Massimo Orsini.
With over 15 years of experience in the insurance industry, Moro brings a deep understanding of the corporate and commercial client segments. Her expertise stems from extensive cross-functional and international roles spanning the sector. In detail, Moro has significant experience in developing portfolio strategies and targeting new opportunities in the cyber segment.
Before joining GC&C, Moro had held several senior roles in the insurance industry, most recently seving as regional head of Cyber at Allianz Commercial. She holds a bachelor’s degree in International Economics and Management from Università Bocconi di Milano.
“I am delighted to welcome such a talented manager as Michela to our team. Her expertise in shaping cyber portfolio strategies and identifying new opportunities, along with her deep underwriting knowledge in financial lines and the cyber sector, will greatly benefit our organization,” commented Carlos Gomez, GC&C head of Insurance, in a statement. “Together with her strategic thinking and strong background in strategy execution, she will bring great value to GC&C.”
Miller Bolsters Asia Power Team, Appointing Howden’s McGonagle
Miller, the London-based independent specialist re/insurance broker, announced the appointment of Elizabeth McGonagle (Kobes) as head of Power, Asia Pacific.
McGonagle will be based in Singapore and report to Matthew Hooker, head of Energy & Marine for the Asia Pacific region. She joins Miller in January 2025.
McGonagle brings over a decade of experience in the sector, most recently as regional director for Howden Singapore, where she led their power client service and broking capabilities. Prior to this, she spent seven years at Wills Towers Watson, latterly as division director for natural resources, power and renewables in Asia.
Miller said McGonagle’s appointment marks the next step of its growth in the power sector and aligns with the firm’s wider strategy to grow its energy, power and construction capabilities in the Asia Pacific region, bringing differentiated solutions to a historically underserved area of the market.
“We are seeing strong demand for the specialist expertise that we have built in Asia, and I am delighted to enhance this with Liz’s experience and passion. As a leading figure in the Asia power market, her decision to join us is testament to the team we are growing and further strengthens our ability to offer clients tailored solutions,” according to Hooker in a statement.
“The Asia power industry presents strong growth opportunities in the coming years, particularly as the economy transitions from conventional fuels to low carbon and carbon free energy generation; something that Liz is extremely well-placed to help clients navigate,” Hooker added.

Topics
Cyber
Commercial Lines
Allianz
