This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Sompo Japan and Willis Towers Watson (WTW).
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Sompo Japan Names Takahashi as Chief Risk Officer, Head of Reinsurance
Sompo Holdings Inc. announced that Koji Takahashi as chief risk officer and head of Reinsurance for its subsidiary Sompo Japan, effective April 1.
Takahashi will report to Koji Ishikawa, president of Sompo Japan. In his role leading Reinsurance, Takahashi has a dual reporting line to Christopher Donelan, CEO of SompoRe, the global reinsurance operations of Sompo, the overseas insurance and reinsurance business of Sompo Holdings.
He is taking over from Emiko Maki, who will step down from her positions within Sompo Japan as chief risk officer and head of Reinsurance after announcing her retirement.
Takahashi currently is chief risk officer for Sompo, Asia Pacific. He has been with the company for 33 years and has extensive experience in risk management and re/insurance.
“By creating a stronger link between our two P&C operations with respect to the purchase of reinsurance, we will ensure a globally consistent and coordinated approach to our broker and reinsurance partners, always working to deliver a frictionless experience,” commented Mikio Okumura, designated Sompo Group CEO.
“I wish Takahashi-san and Chris Donelan every success as they embark on their new and expanded responsibilities and am confident in their ability to excel in their respective roles. I thank Maki-san for her contributions to Sompo Japan over the years and wish her all the best in her future endeavors.”
“I am pleased to see us moving closer to acting as a global P&C organization. Having our Ceded Reinsurance team and Takahashi-san working more closely together under the leadership of Chris Donelan will ensure a more efficient go-to-market approach to our placements, continuing unique and distinct local and regional coverages where needed, but global approach when possible,” according to James Shea, Sompo’s CEO.
“Aligning our reinsurance purchasing is a logical first step to working more closely with our colleagues in SompoRe. I look forward to Chris Donelan becoming more involved with our reinsurance programs,” Ishikawa said.
WTW Taps Aon’s Bosc for Global Specialty Team
Insurance broker WTW announced the appointment of Julien Bosc to the Global Specialty team, within the company’s Insurance Consulting and Technology (ICT) business. Bosc will assume the newly created role of global specialty director and continues the expansion of WTW’s Global Specialty team.
Bosc joins WTW from Aon, where he spent 15 years in Aon’s Strategy Consulting division, leading the delivery of business strategy projects for (re)insurers and co-leading Aon’s commercial due diligence proposition.
Bosc will be based in London and report to Richard Clarkson, global market Leader of WTW Global Speciality. He will be responsible for developing solutions for specialty insurance worldwide to help re/insurers grow their top line, improve profitability, and reduce costs across their underwriting, trading and technical actuarial processes. His remit will also include the orchestration of strategic partnerships with selected third-party companies that can help expand the Consulting and Technology proposition.
Bosc joins recent appointees Will Shuter and Sina Thieme during a period of expansion for the Global Specialty team. Shuter has expertise across all core proposition areas in the London market, including capital, reserving and pricing, product, claims, and underwriting. Thieme previously worked in the Bermuda market, where she has been instrumental in WTW’s ILS and Cat Bond propositions, delivering material growth into the business over the last few years.

Topics
Excess Surplus
Reinsurance
Aon
Japan
Willis Towers Watson
