The president of International General Insurance Holdings Ltd. (IGI), Waleed Jabsheh, will assume the role of chief executive officer. He succeeds Wasef Jabsheh, the founder, current chairman and CEO of IGI, who will become executive chairman, effective July 1, 2023.
The leadership announcement implements a succession plan put in place in 2020 when IGI became a public company.
As executive chairman, Wasef Jabsheh will continue to be engaged in overseeing the strategic direction of IGI. Waleed Jabsheh, who joined IGI in 2002 shortly after inception and has served as president since 2011, will take on expanded responsibilities beyond the insurance and reinsurance business, to include all aspects of the holding company activities.
The IGI Board of Directors said that Waleed Jabsheh has “exhibited exceptional leadership during a period of significant growth and transition for IGI and that in recent years, the company has delivered some of the best financial results in its history.”
“This is a natural transition for us and is part of the succession plan our board set in motion several years ago. The company has been on an excellent trajectory of profitable growth and expansion, and Waleed and I will continue to work together to maintain our company’s commitment to excellence and to delivering long-term shareholder value,” commented Wasef Jabsheh, who is Waleed Jabsheh’s father.
“Waleed has played an important role in developing the IGI culture that has supported our long track record of success and this ensures a seamless transition to CEO. The board and I look forward to continuing to provide strong stewardship to the IGI group,” he added.
“It is an honour and a great privilege to take on the role of CEO and follow in the footsteps of our founding CEO, Wasef. It is Wasef’s vision, leadership and consistent commitment to our clients, shareholders and most importantly our people, that IGI has achieved its many successes over the past two decades,” said Waleed Jabsheh.
“I am committed to carrying on this legacy and building upon it; we have deep talent across the IGI group with an embedded culture of performance. I look forward to continuing to work with Wasef, the board, and my colleagues, and I am grateful for their support in taking on this role,” Waleed Jabsheh added.
Source: International General Insurance Holdings