This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Liberty Specialty Markets and Guy Carpenter.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Liberty Specialty Markets Names AXA XL’s Prato as London President
Liberty Specialty Markets (LSM), part of Liberty Mutual Insurance Group, announced the appointment of Luis Prato as president, LSM London, effective December 2023. Prato will report into Phil Hobbs, president and managing director of LSM.
In the newly created role, Prato will be responsible for setting, owning, and executing the strategy for the London insurance business. He will also work closely with London CUO Melanie O’Neill on the annual plan for London as well as helping to drive a successful client and broker strategy, aligned with LSM’s risk appetite and broader market conditions.
Prato joins from AXA XL, where he has been CUO of Lloyd’s and UK since 2018. Prior to AXA XL, Prato was head of Energy at XL Catlin.
Guy Carpenter Appoints Howden’s Cacia as Italy CEO; 2 Key Broking, Analytics Roles Also Hired
Guy Carpenter, the reinsurance arm of Marsh McLennan, announced the appointment of Vincenzo Cacia as its next CEO of Italykey appointments in Italy to further strengthen its position in the region.
Based in Milan, Cacia will be responsible for overseeing all broking activities across the country, focusing on areas to enhance Guy Carpenter’s comprehensive client offering in the region, reporting to Dorothée Mélis-Moutafis, interim CEO, Europe. He is a highly accomplished reinsurance specialist with more than 30 years of sector experience.
Cacia will join Guy Carpenter from Howden, following completion of his post-employment obligations, where he has served as managing director and head of Treaty Reinsurance, Italy, since 2022. Prior to this, he spent more than 15 years as a managing director at Aon and led the company’s treaty reinsurance operations in Italy.
In addition, Corrado Jamnikar has joined Guy Carpenter as a managing director in broking with immediate effect. Jamnikar has more than 30 years of reinsurance broking experience and was most recently a director at Howden Italia S.p.A, prior to which he was a director at Aon Reinsurance Italia S.p.A.
Francesco Altavilla will join Guy Carpenter as head of Analytics for Italy, effective July 1, 2023. Based in Milan, he will be responsible for managing Guy Carpenter’s cutting-edge analytical tools and data insights to support the development of smarter solutions for clients across the region. Most recently, Altavilla was chief operating officer and general manager at Satec Holding Srl.

Topics
London
AXA XL
