This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Lockton in London and Markel Australia.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Lockton Taps Aon Veteran Guffanti as Head of Continental Europe
Lockton, the world’s largest independent insurance broker, announces the appointment of Andrea Guffanti as head of Continental Europe, based in London.
He takes up the newly created role with immediate effect. His responsibilities will be to work alongside Lockton Global Partners’ Operations Team, led by Michael Goudime, as well as the company’s Market Specialty Teams and its owned operations in Europe to develop a dynamic engagement between all the constituencies.
Guffanti brings over 25 years’ worth of experience to the role and joins after 17 years at Aon, where, most recently, he held the role of EMEA chief commercial officer (2018-2023). Prior to this, he served as Aon Austria’s chief executive officer (2014-2018), Aon Iberia and Middle East’s chief commercial cfficer (2011-2014) and managing director of the Southern European and Latin American Team (2006-2011).
Prior to Aon, Guffanti spent nine years as executive director of Global Financial Executive Risk (FINEX) at Willis Towers Watson between 1997 and 2006.
Markel Australia Appoints Rogers From AXA XL as Head of Queensland
Markel, the insurance operation within Markel Group Inc., announced the appointment of Stephen Rogers as head of Queensland, furthering its mission to serve the Australian market with a high-quality local presence.
Rogers joins Markel Australia from AXA XL, where he served as casualty manager and led the liability construction practice. Bringing with him more than two decades of experience in the Australian insurance sector, Rogers’ casualty expertise aligns with Markel Australia’s strategic focus on liability insurance and empowered underwriting. He has a successful track record for finding longer term liability insurance solutions for clients in industries, such as construction and resources, that are facing higher risk and reduced available capital due to market conditions.
Based in Brisbane, Rogers is Markel’s second appointment in Australia, and will report to Melbourne-based Managing Director Rory Morison. Markel’s offices in Melbourne and Brisbane are now open under their leadership, with the Sydney office to open later this month.
Markel’s Australian expansion continues Markel’s decade-long investment in international markets, with the establishment of successful onshore operations in Canada, Europe, the Middle East and Asia.

Topics
Liability
Europe
Aon
Australia
AXA XL
