Sedgwick, the Memphis, Tenn.-based loss adjuster, has launched a new power and energy division in the UK, under the leadership of industry veteran David Ward.
The division will focus on claims affecting the energy and power sectors, with the capabilities to serve traditional power plant, infrastructure and oil and gas providers as well as handling emerging claims trends in the renewables space. These include wind, solar, hydroelectric, geothermal, biofuel and hydrogen power.
Sedgwick said the launch comes at a time of unprecedented transformation for the power and energy sectors with the U.S. Inflation Reduction Act and similar initiatives in the EU and UK, which incentivize investment in green energy initiatives.
Leveraging the combined resources of Sedgwick’s forensic accounting services, home foreign and construction solutions and EFI Global division specializing in engineering, the new team is ideally positioned to provide a comprehensive range of services to help power and energy firms navigate emerging trends and the new operating environment, the company said.
David Ward will oversee the division as head of power and energy, bringing over 30 years of experience in loss adjusting, energy and construction. Ward, who joined Sedgwick in January 2017, will lead a team of experts from across the company who cover a spectrum of power and energy verticals.
“Things are changing rapidly in the power and energy sectors worldwide, and firms increasingly need expertise in a variety of new areas. Leading a new operation that brings together the knowledge and support of the wider Sedgwick offering earmarks us as a serious contender in the power and energy market,” Ward said. “I’m looking forward to working with Sedgwick’s team of experts to help clients navigate this fast-moving environment.”
Paul White, Sedgwick CEO for the UK and the rest of international, added, “Given our significant experience handling claims across the power and energy sectors, consolidating our vast expertise into a unified offering was a clear next step. David’s extensive experience made him an ideal choice to lead and scale the team, and his cross-sector knowledge will prove invaluable as we establish ourselves as the partner of choice for power and energy clients of all kinds.”
Source: Sedgwick