This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Allianz Commercial and Sompo International.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Allianz Commercial Taps AIG’s Valencia to Lead Portfolio Solutions
Allianz Commercial has appointed Claudia Valencia as global head of Portfolio Solutions, joining on Jan. 8, 2024.
Valencia will be based in London, and will report jointly to Chief Underwriting Officer Shanil Williams and Global Head of Distribution Jeremy Sharpe. In this newly created role, she will drive Allianz Commercial’s global strategy for Portfolio Solutions including panels, facilities, MGAs, bancassurance and other forms of delegated authority.
Valencia joins from AIG where she was Latin America regional head of client and broker engagement, based in New York. Over her career, she has held a variety of internationally based underwriting and market facing leadership roles with AIG, Zurich and other leading insurers in London, Miami, New York and Colombia.
“The commercial and specialty market continues to grow in this area and therefore the time is right to bring a coherent global strategy across all our business. Claudia has extensive global experience in both underwriting and distribution roles, and I am delighted to have her on board,” commented Williams.
Sompo Int’l Taps Allianz’s El Oulhani for Distribution & Client Mgmt. in France
Sompo International, the commercial and consumer property/casualty re/insurer, announced the appointment of Redouane El Oulhani as head of Distribution & Client Relationship Management, Insurance, for France. He will be based in Paris.
The company is in the process of establishing insurance operations in France, subject to required regulatory notifications.
El Oulhani joins Sompo International from Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty, where he spent the last 15 years, most recently as head of Sales for France, MEA, Greece and Turkey.
“Sompo International is a growing organization with ambitious goals globally and within Continental Europe. Having the right distribution and client relationship management infrastructure will be a key part of that growth strategy in France and Redouane is the ideal candidate to lead this area,” commented Marilyn Faugas, country manager, Insurance, France.
“He will have responsibility for building strong and productive working partnerships with brokers and clients alike. I’m delighted to have him on board,” Faugas added.

Topics
Commercial Lines
Allianz
AIG
