This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Liberty Specialty Markets and HDI Global.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Liberty Specialty Markets Names Bolaños as CUO, Moreno as President US, LatAm
Liberty Specialty Markets (LSM), part of Liberty Mutual Insurance Group, announced the appointment of Ronald Bolaños to the role of chief underwriting officer (CUO). He will report to both Matthew Moore, president of Underwriting, Global Risk Solutions (GRS), and Phil Hobbs, president and managing director, LSM.
Manuel Moreno becomes president, LSM, US and Latin America, while maintaining his existing role of CUO, LSM US and Latin America. In his new position, Moreno reports to both Bolaños and Hobbs. Bolaños and Moreno will remain based in Miami and the appointments are effective immediately.
Bolaños will be responsible for driving high performance underwriting across all LSM products. His focus is on leveraging global expertise and resources to meet the complex risk needs of LSM’s clients and broking partners.
Moreno will lead the continued high-performance of LSM in the US and Latin America. He will be responsible for building on existing and developing new partnerships in the region.
“Many congratulations to Ronald and Manuel on their promotions. Both combine great leadership skills and in-depth technical ability. Ronald has led LSM’s US and Latin America business since 2020 and has built a strong, market-leading team,” commented Hobbs. “His underwriting expertise and significant business and market knowledge make him the ideal candidate for LSM CUO.”
He went on to say that Moreno has delivered excellent underwriting results as CUO “and an in-depth understanding of the diverse market in the region. He is perfectly placed to continue LSM’s growth and development in the US and Latin America.”
HDI Global Names Tarantino MD of Singapore Branch Office as Silton Retires
HDI Global SE announced it will appoint Alex Tarantino as managing director HDI Global SE Singapore, succeeding Graham Silton who plans to retire in mid-2024, after more than four decades in the insurance industry.
Andrew Cochrane will succeed Tarantino as Liability head for Australasia.
Tarantino, currently regional underwriting manager Liability and Cyber, Asia Pacific, will continue in his current role until he moves to Singapore as managing director, Singapore, and Asia Pacific Liability head from July 1, 2024. With more than 20 years of international underwriting experience across the UK, Canada and Australia, Tarantino joined HDI Global SE in 2019. His assignment to Singapore reflects HDI’s ambitions to continue expanding its reach in the growth regions of Asia Pacific.
Cochrane, currently liability underwriting manager, Northern Region, will become underwriting manager, Liability Australasia, in the Sydney office, effective January 2024. Cochrane’s career began in London in 2002 as an international liability broker, focused on Australia, Canada, Africa and Latin America business before moving to Australia in 2015 to pursue liability underwriting opportunities. In 2019, Cochrane joined HDI Global where he has been instrumental along with Tarantino in growing the liability book and establishing HDI as one of the leading liability markets in Australia, the company affirmed.
Silton joined HDI Global SE Australia in May 2015 and successfully grew the property portfolio in Australia before being appointed as managing director for Singapore in 2017. Since then, Silton has played a pivotal role in transforming the reputation of the Singapore branch office and developing a strong following in the marketplace, contributing also to the positive overall result of the German-based industrial insurer, HDI Global, the company said. Following four decades in the insurance industry as a leader and expert property underwriter with international experience, Silton will retire at the end of June 2024.

Topics
USA
Excess Surplus
Liability
Maryland
