Coalition, the San Francisco-based cyber managing general agent and cyber-security firm, announced a strategic partnership with Japan’s MS&AD Insurance Group to provide cybersecurity monitoring solutions for small and medium-sized businesses (SMBs).
MS&AD Insurance Group, the largest non-life insurer in Japan that operates across the ASEAN region, recently launched the “MS&AD Cyber Risk Finder,” its first cyber risk assessment service built using Coalition Control™, a risk management platform developed by Coalition. MS&AD Cyber Risk Finder is currently available to the entire Japanese SMB market.
“Cyber attacks are increasing globally, and Japan, as one of the world’s largest economies, is especially at risk,” said Joshua Motta, Coalition’s co-founder and CEO. “By joining forces with MS&AD, we’re committed to bolstering cybersecurity for Japanese companies by providing continuous security monitoring, active risk management, and mechanisms to transfer risk and respond to incidents. We’re thrilled to partner with MS&AD to protect those businesses in Japan that currently lack these sophisticated protections.”
Using Coalition Control technology, the MS&AD Cyber Risk Finder offers cyber risk diagnostics and consultation services based on vulnerability information collected from internet-connected devices worldwide. The Cyber Risk Finder will provide diagnostic reports to businesses, including personalized vulnerability scores, identified weak access points, and a prioritized list of actions to take toward remediation.
“Through our partnership with Coalition, we can offer cyber risk assessments and diagnostic services tailored for Japanese SMBs at a lower cost. Leveraging the MS&AD Group’s presence and distribution network, we will widely deliver this solution to our customers to help protect them,” said Tomoyuki Motoyama, group chief digital officer at MS&AD. “Moving forward, we plan to develop additional features to counter increasing cyber-attacks on supply chains targeting large companies.”
In the coming months, the partnership will expand to introduce additional cybersecurity products and services.
About Coalition
Coalition offers its Active Insurance products in the U.S., U.K., and Canada through relationships with global insurers, as well as cyber capacity through its own carrier, Coalition Insurance Co. Coalition’s Active Risk Platform provides automated security alerts, threat intelligence, expert guidance, and cybersecurity tools to help businesses remain resilient against cyber attacks.
Source: Coalition

Topics
Cyber
Mississippi
Japan
