This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Arch Insurance International and Willis Towers Watson.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Arch Promotes Thompson to Offshore Energy Underwriting Manager
Arch Insurance International (Arch) has announced the promotion of Elizabeth Thompson to offshore energy underwriting manager and the appointment of James Brown as a senior energy advisor, both effective immediately.
In this role, Thompson is responsible for managing the underwriting activities across Arch’s London Market offshore energy portfolio which provides worldwide coverage across both the conventional and renewable sectors. Based in London, she reports to Jake Gibbs, head of Marine and Energy.
Thompson was most recently a senior offshore energy underwriter, having joined Arch in 2019 from Chaucer.
Brown is responsible for assisting the offshore energy underwriting team in the assessment of both conventional and emerging risks in the sector and supporting the development of solutions across the broader energy portfolio to help clients manage the energy transition. Based in London, he also reports to Gibbs.
Bringing over 30 years of experience to the position, Brown has most recently been working in a consultancy and advisory role with Kita. Prior to this, he was head of Natural Resources at Chaucer.
WTW Names Mamone as Head of Tech Delivery and Strategy
Insurance broker WTW announced the appointment of Mark Mamone as head of Technology Delivery and Strategy to its Insurance Consulting and Technology (ICT) business.
Mamone brings with him 37 years of cross-industry and technology experience, holding senior leadership positions at Serco, BAE and BT. Most recently, Mamone served as group chief Information officer (CIO) at digital identity specialists GBG, responsible for over 500 technology professionals, covering product management, product engineering, information security, customer support and service operations.
In his new role, Mamone will be responsible for advancing WTW’s strategic approach to software delivery, building on its portfolio of cutting-edge insurance technology solutions already used by over 1,000 insurers, including Radar, Igloo, ResQ, Unify and the RiskAgility suite. In addition to leading the ICT business from a technology strategy perspective, Mamone will be directly responsible for the unit’s platform and security teams, and architecture more generally.
Duncan Anderson, global leader of Insurance Technology at WTW, said: “Mark’s deep expertise and leadership experience in software delivery make him a significant addition to WTW. He brings an outstanding track record of enabling growth through innovation which I am confident will enhance our global SaaS capabilities and support our mission of innovating and transforming the insurance industry.”

Topics
InsurTech
Underwriting
Tech
Willis Towers Watson
