Gallagher, the international insurance broker, announced the rebranding of its India business to Gallagher Insurance Brokers Private Ltd.
Gallagher Insurance Brokers Private Ltd. is one of the leading providers of risk management services, general insurance broking and risk solutions in India, said Gallagher in a statement. Established in 2005, the company is headquartered in Mumbai with regional presence across Bengaluru, Bhubaneshwar, Chennai, Delhi, Gurugram, Guwahati, and Kolkata.
Gallagher acquired 30% of Edelweiss Insurance Brokers Ltd. in 2019, empowering the Indian broker with a full array of advisory services, best practices, and product innovation capabilities. Subsequently, in July 2021, Gallagher fully acquired the Indian broker, marking its maiden presence in India and giving the company a footprint in the growing Indian insurance market.
The complete integration of Edelweiss Insurance Brokers and rebranding was effective from March 14, 2022.
The rebrand underscores Gallagher’s commitment to innovation and customer excellence in the Indian market. The customers will continue to benefit from the highest level of service in addition to gaining access to a larger suite of insurance products and services under the Gallagher brand.
“This marks the first time the standalone Gallagher brand has been used in India and is a significant step as we continue to expand our footprint globally. Our partnership with the India team under the leadership of Vinay Sohani has been a great success and this further alignment with our global business gives us a springboard for future growth,” commented Vyvienne Wade, chairperson of Global Broking in Europe, Middle East, & Asia, Gallagher.
“We view India as a key growth market for Gallagher given its size and scale, and we see many opportunities for further development of the business with the current talented team in place,” Wade added.
“Being a fully integrated part of Gallagher in India will add a lot of value to the business in the long run bringing to our clients access to a larger and more sophisticated suite of insurance products and best-in-class service standards,” said Vinay Sohani, managing director and CEO of Gallagher Insurance Brokers Ltd.
“The integration is also aligned with our company’s ambitious business expansion and endeavour of becoming India’s leading insurance and reinsurance broker, providing path breaking risk management solutions. Moreover, it strengthens our risk management expertise and puts us on an accelerated path to market leadership,” Sohani continued.
Gallagher is the brand name of Arthur J. Gallagher & Co., the global insurance broker, risk management services and consulting firm headquartered in Rolling Meadows, Ill. With operations in 57 countries, Gallagher offers client service capabilities in more than 150 countries around the world through a network of correspondent brokers and consultants.
Source: Gallagher Insurance Brokers Private Ltd.

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
A.J. Gallagher
