This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Chubb Canada, insurtech MGA Loadsure and Lloyd’s re/insurer Canopius.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Chubb Names Johnstone President of Canadian Operations as Alfieri Retires
Chubb announced that Paul Johnstone will assume the role of country president of the company’s business operations in Canada, subject to regulatory approvals.
Currently, Johnstone serves as chief operating officer in Canada. In his new role, which becomes effective July 1, Johnstone will have executive operating responsibility for the organization’s retail property and casualty insurance business, including its high-net-worth personal lines and accident and health offerings for Canadian-based clients served by independent brokers and agents.
Johnstone succeeds John Alfieri, who will retire from Chubb in July after serving the company for nearly two decades. Johnstone will report to Chris Maleno, senior vice president, Chubb Group, and division president, North America Field Operations.
Johnstone has nearly three decades of experience in the Canadian insurance market, spanning the reinsurance and P/C sectors. Prior to ACE’s acquisition of Chubb in January 2016, he served as senior vice president, of Chubb’s Personal Risk Services business in Canada, where he oversaw the modernization of its operating systems and strategic expansion of distribution. He joined Chubb in 1994 as an associate in Commercial Insurance. Johnstone holds a bachelor of arts degree from the University of Windsor and holds a CRM and a Certificate in Public Administration.
“John [Alfieri] has been a tremendous colleague and influential leader throughout his career at Chubb. He joined the company in 2004 and played many pivotal roles, including developing the New York Region into what it is today and shaping our client executive team and overall field structure for our division that serve large national and multinational commercial clients,” said Maleno.
“Under John’s leadership, Chubb’s Canadian commercial and personal lines of business have experienced significant growth, in turn preparing his successor to further that upward trajectory. We thank John for his many contributions and wish him the very best in his retirement.”
Insurtech MGA Loadsure Promotes 2 for Senior Team
Insurtech MGA Loadsure announced it has promoted Nathan Trimble to chief commercial officer and Kate Lawson to head of People & Culture, effective immediately. They both report to Jim Heide, chief operating officer.
Trimble has over 20 years of industry experience and joined London-based Loadsure in 2021 as executive vice president – Sales & Business Development. He previously held a variety of senior sales roles at insurance firms including insurtech MGA Corvus Insurance.
At Loadsure he is responsible for managing the market strategy, client engagement, sales activities, and growing sales team. His proven history of ensuring customer success has become an integral part of powering Loadsure’s growth.
Lawson brings with her more than 20 years of administrative experience, 12 of which she had a specialist focus in HR and is Level 5 CIPD (Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development) qualified. In this new role, she will be heading Loadsure’s strategy to support and maintain the company’s open and entrepreneurial culture, supporting its growing workforce, as well as efforts to continually recruit the best talent possible.
About Loadsure
A Lloyd’s coverholder, Loadsure leverages AI and automation to provide pay-as-you-go, digital insurance for brokers, shippers, and carriers. Through Loadsure.net and leading transport management systems (TMS) platforms, transactional coverage can be automated—or secured in less than 40 seconds—with claims resolved in minutes.
Canopius Names Atrium’s Wallace as Head of Marine Treaty
Canopius Group, the London-based specialty re/insurer, announced the appointment of Claire Wallace as head of Marine Treaty, effective immediately.
Based in London and reporting to Canopius’ head of Specialty Reinsurance Chris Gray, Wallace will be responsible for leading a team of global underwriters writing marine and energy treaty reinsurance.
Wallace joins Canopius from Atrium, where, since 2014, she held the title of marine reinsurance underwriter, writing the marine and energy excess loss account, for London and international clients.
Prior to that, she worked for Canopius, where she began her underwriting career in 2008. Before that, she spent 18 years as a marine and energy reinsurance broker, most recently for Aon.
About Canopius
Canopius is a global specialty re/insurer with underwriting operations in Australia, Bermuda, China, Singapore, the UK and US. It underwrites through Lloyd’s Syndicates 4444 (managed by Canopius Managing Agents Ltd.), a U.S. surplus lines insurer, Canopius US Insurance Inc. and Canopius Reinsurance Ltd, a Bermuda based Class 4 Reinsurer.

Topics
Insurance Wholesale
Canada
Chubb
