This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Euler Hermes, Gallagher Re and Marsh.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Rosa Appointed CEO of Euler Hermes World Agency
Euler Hermes, the world leader in trade credit insurance, announced that Riccardo Rosa has been appointed CEO of its multinationals segment, Euler Hermes World Agency. He replaces Anil Berry, who was appointed member of the group board of management of Euler Hermes in charge of market management, commercial and distribution in June 2021.
Rosa graduated from Universita’ di Bologna. He spent 10 years with IBM Global Financing, before joining GE Capital in 2001 for 14 years. He then joined the Euler Hermes Group in 2013 as regional chief commercial officer for the Mediterranean, Middle East & Africa region.
In 2016, he was appointed global chief commercial officer of Euler Hermes World Agency, the team dedicated to multinational solutions. After a transition period between July and November 2021, Rosa was appointed CEO of Euler Hermes World Agency, effective December 2021.
About Euler Hermes
Euler Hermes is the global leader in trade credit insurance and a recognized specialist in the areas of surety, collections, structured trade credit and political risk. Headquartered in Paris, Euler Hermes is present in more than 50 countries with 5,800 employees. In 2020, Euler Hermes global business transactions represented 824 billion Euro in exposure. Euler Hermes is a full member of Allianz Group.
Gallagher Re Names Aon’s LaPalme to Head New Canada Branch
Gallagher Re, the global reinsurance broker, announced the launch of a new branch in Montreal, led by Isabelle LaPalme, who has joined as executive vice-president (EVP). LaPalme will lead Gallagher Re’s expansion into Quebec and the French-speaking insurance community.
She will collaborate closely with her colleagues in Toronto as part of the 30-strong broking, actuarial and catastrophe modeling team of professionals within Gallagher Re in Canada.
An actuary by profession, LaPalme has experience as a consulting, pricing and reserving actuary. She is well known and highly respected in the Quebec insurance community having been a market presence there since 1996. She brings more than 25 years’ insurance and reinsurance industry experience in Canada and internationally, moving into the reinsurance broking sector in 2010. She joins Gallagher Re from Aon where she most recently held the role of chief of Broking Operations and senior vice president.
As EVP and branch manager in Montreal, LaPalme will be responsible for establishing and growing Gallagher Re’s local presence as well as being core to the continued and successful growth of the company’s Canadian operations.
Since establishing its Canadian reinsurance broking operation in 2014 (as Willis Re), Gallagher Re has grown to become a top-three reinsurance broker in Canada. It has invested heavily in building a multi-disciplinary team to support and service its expanding roster of national clients, through the design of innovative reinsurance solutions.
“We’ve long aspired to build a presence at the heart of the French-speaking Canadian re/insurance community and no one is better placed to lead that development than Isabelle,” commented Geoff Lubert, CEO, Canada, Gallagher Re.
“Having been embedded in the Montreal market for 25 years, her closeness to clients and the thriving local insurance sector is as invaluable as her integrated experience across broking and analytics.”
 Marsh Appoints Lipinska and Cobb to UK & Ireland Industry Practices Team
Global insurance broker Marsh announced the expansion of its UK & Ireland Industry Practices with the appointment of Kasia Lipinska as Manufacturing & Automotive Industry leader and Rory Cobb as Professional & Business Services Industry leader.
Based in London, Lipinska will report to Charles Beresford-Davies, head of Industries, UK & Ireland, Marsh. Cobb also will report to Beresford-Davies and Tim Payne, UK chairman, Financial and Professional practice, Marsh Specialty.
Lipinska and Cobb join Marsh’s UK & Ireland Industry leadership team, which spans 20 industry groups covering major segments of the economy, and which develops and delivers industry-specific services and solutions to clients ranging from small and medium sized organisations to global corporations.
Lipinska joins Marsh from Aviva, where most recently she oversaw the development of insurance solutions for leading clients, specializing in marine, cargo, and logistics risks. Lipinska has also worked as an underwriter for RSA and Thomas Miller. She brings more than 20 years’ industry experience to Marsh.
Cobb joins Marsh from Jones Lang LaSalle (JLL) where for the last three years he was UK head of Business Development and Sales Enablement and led a team of senior professionals focused on delivering exceptional client experiences across the UK. Before JLL, Cobb was employed by PwC for six years in various leadership and client engagement roles. Cobb has more than 15 years’ experience in the professional and business services industry.

Topics
Reinsurance
Canada
Aon
A.J. Gallagher
