This edition of International People Moves details appointments at MS Amlin and Generali Global Corporate & Commercial (GC&C).
A summary of these new hires follows here.
MS Amlin Promotes Forsyth as Head of Marine, Succeeding Humberstone Who Is Retiring
MS Amlin, the London-based Lloyd’s global re/insurer, announced the appointment of Stuart Forsyth as head of Marine.
He is currently lead underwriter for Hull & Hull War and will take over the role from Laurence Humberstone, who is retiring after 19 years with MS Amlin. Forsyth will be responsible for leading the growing marine business which encompasses cargo, hull, liability, specie, and yacht.
He will be based in London and report to Neil Walker, deputy chief underwriting officer and head of Specialty Insurance.
Forsyth has more than three decades of experience across underwriting and broking in the marine re/insurance market. Before joining MS Amlin in 2021, he worked at RSA as London market hull and liability leader.
Forsyth started his career at Willis Faber & Dumas, progressing to divisional director in 1996. In 1998, he moved to Sedgwick’s hull department specializing in Greek and North American Hull business. During his 12 years as a broker, he gained extensive experience in both direct insurance and reinsurance, before serving as chief executive officer of the Scottish Boatowners Mutual for 16 years.
Walker thanked Humberstone “for his invaluable contribution to MS Amlin over the years,” and wished him the best for his retirement.
Generali GC&C Names Mediterranean, LatAm Team Managers as Part of Biz Reorg
Generali Global Corporate & Commercial (GC&C) announces the reorganization of its business in the Mediterranean and Latin America region, creating a new geographical area and appointing two managers.
This new region – previously known as GC&C Iberia & Latin America – oversees the corporate and commercial activities in the Mediterranean area (excluding Italy and Greece) and South America.
A new position, called “area manager” has been established as a result of the reorganization, leading to the appointments of Samantha Gimeno as Mediterranean area manager, and Fabricio Porto as Latin America area manager. Both are client & broker relationship managers (CBRM).
With more than 20 years of experience in the international and corporate insurance industry, Gimeno has played a pivotal role in overseeing commercial relationships with both clients and brokers. Most recently, she served as head distribution Iberia at Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty. Prior to this, she worked at AXA and Munich Re. She holds a master’s degree in industrial organization engineering from Escuela Técnica Superior de Ingeniería – ICAI.
Before becoming Latin America area manager, Porto served as the head of Clients & Broker Relationship Management for Latin America. After accumulating 14 years of experience within Generali, he moved to GC&C in 2018 as a client and broker relationship manager in Brazil. Over the past four years, Porto has dedicated himself to establishing and sustaining robust relationships with key clients and brokers, seeking optimal solutions for GC&C customers at the local level.
In another appointment, Carlos Gomez, the current head of GC&C Mediterranean & Latin America, has been named head of Insurance, on an interim basis. As part of the reorganization, the Claims, Underwriting, Risk Prevention & Risk Engineering functions will report directly to the head of Insurance. The Risk Prevention & Risk Engineering team has been formed into an independent unit.

Topics
Mississippi
