Global commercial insurance prices increased 4% in the fourth quarter of 2022, down from a 6% increase in Q3 and a 9% increase in Q2, which is a continuation of a trend of moderating increases that began in Q1 2021, according to Marsh’s Global Insurance Market Index.
While this is the 21st consecutive quarter of increases, pricing increases moderated in most regions with the exception of financial and professional lines, which decreased for only the second time since Q3 2017.
The quarter’s pricing moderation was driven largely by a 6% decrease in financial and professional lines and the continued moderation in cyber pricing, Marsh said.
In the U.S., composite pricing increased by 3% (down from 5% in Q3 of 2022) while rates in the UK were up by 4% (down from a 7% increase in Q3), said Marsh. Rates increased in Pacific by 5%, in Asia by 2%, and in Continental Europe by 6% (all level to the previous quarter). In Latin America and the Caribbean prices rose by 7%, a rise on the 5% increase recorded in Q3.
Other findings from the report include:
“After a challenging 2022, our clients will continue to face a tough operating environment in 2023. With a slowdown in the global economy, in addition to ongoing inflation and geopolitical tensions, many clients face significant headwinds,” commented Lucy Clarke, president, Marsh Specialty and Global Placement, Marsh.
“Pricing for property risks continues to be impacted by the high level of losses in 2022, especially resulting from Hurricane Ian,” Clarke continued.
Marsh said that all references to pricing and pricing movements in its report are averages.
Related:

Topics
Trends
Commercial Lines
Business Insurance
Pricing Trends
