This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Liberty Mutual Reinsurance and Everest Insurance International.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Liberty Mutual Re Names Swiss Re’s Chisolm as Senior Underwriting Executive
Liberty Mutual Reinsurance (LM Re), part of Liberty Mutual Insurance Group, announced the appointment of Dionne Chisolm as senior underwriting executive, effective immediately. Chisolm is based in Stamford, Conn. and reports to Susan Burke, standard casualty treaty manager US.
As part of the US standard casualty team, Chisolm will work to develop and manage a complex portfolio of assumed casualty treaty reinsurance business. She will manage all aspects of underwriting, new and renewal business and will serve as a technical resource on underwriting and reinsurance issues.
Chisolm joins from Swiss Re America, Armonk, where she was vice President, Senior Treaty Underwriter (Market Underwriter and Products Underwriter). She has more than 30 years of professional experience in the insurance and reinsurance industry. For 20 of those years, Chisolm was a treaty reinsurance underwriter where she produced, managed, and maintained a portfolio of property and casualty business.
Everest Insurance Int’l Appoints 2 Senior Leaders in Asia
Everest Insurance International, an insurance division of Everest Group Ltd., announced it will augment its senior leadership team in Asia with two key appointments.
Tomi Latva-Kiskola will join the company as head of Insurance, Asia, effective Feb. 5, 2024, reporting to Scott Leney, head of Asia Pacific, Everest Insurance International. Swee Keong Mah, currently interim regional head of Insurance, Asia, and head of Legal, Asia Pacific, has been appointed chief executive officer, Everest Insurance Singapore, and will report to Latva-Kiskola.
Latva-Kiskola joins Everest with extensive experience leading insurance operations and teams throughout Asia. Most recently, he was president and CEO of AIG Insurance Hong Kong Ltd., where he transformed the structure of the regional operation and markedly improved loss ratios and business performance.
Prior to that he served as CEO in Thailand and led shared services operations in Asia and Europe throughout his 15-year tenure at the company. Prior to AIG, Latva-Kiskola served as a senior adviser to numerous international insurance, financial services, energy, and pharmaceutical clients globally, successfully guiding them through complex strategy, operations, and risk management issues.
He holds a Bachelor of Science (Honors) in Business and Finance from Aston University in the UK.
The company also announced that Swee Keong Mah, currently interim regional head of Insurance, Asia, and head of Legal, Asia Pacific, has been appointed chief executive officer, Everest Insurance Singapore. Mah joined Everest in 2022 and has since played a pivotal role establishing the division’s Singapore operations as a member of the division’s Asia Pacific leadership team.
Prior to Everest, he served in various general counsel roles including head of Legal, Risk & Compliance for Asia and Middle East at Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance. Mah holds a Bachelor of Laws (Honors) from National University in Singapore and received his Master of Business Administration (Honors) from University of Chicago, Booth School of Business.

Topics
Underwriting
Leadership
Swiss Re
