This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Acrisure Re and Dale Underwriting Partners.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Acrisure Re Announces Leadership Changes in International Reinsurance Unit
Acrisure Re, the re/insurance division of global insurance broker and fintech platform Acrisure, announced leadership changes within its international reinsurance division.
Effective immediately, David Sowrey has been appointed managing director and Nigel Dane has assumed the role of chairman of Acrisure Re’s International Treaty business. Both leaders are based in London and will continue to report directly to CEO, Simon Hedley.
As managing director of the International Treaty division, Sowrey continues to lead the reinsurance broking operations, bringing both continuity and an energized focus on leading Acrisure Re’s international reinsurance business, the broker said.
Since joining Acrisure Re in 2012, Sowrey has had a pivotal role in expanding the London platform. With a career deeply rooted in the London market, he brings extensive experience in property, casualty, multi-line reinsurance and retro classes of business. During his time at Acrisure Re, he has been involved in the development and placement of treaty reinsurance, Lloyd’s consortia and MGAs.
As chairman of Acrisure Re’s International Treaty business, Dane will focus on developing and strengthening relationships with both new and existing clients and markets, further enhancing Acrisure Re’s partnerships with large and important cedants and reinsurers. Dane, who has been with Acrisure Re since 2002, when he established and led the London office, brings over 40 years of re/insurance industry expertise. His extensive experience spans multiple classes of business across both sides of the Atlantic.
“These strategic appointments are designed to sharpen our focus on our continued growth and strengthen our partnerships with key clients and markets, further leveraging Acrisure Group’s relationships,” commented Simon Hedley, Acrisure Re global CEO.
Dale Enters Int’l Professional Indemnity Market, Led by Westfield’s Barnes
Dale Underwriting Partners, the trading name for Dale Managing Agency Ltd.’s Lloyd’s Syndicate 1729, announced it is entering the international professional indemnity insurance market.
To support growth in this new line, Ryan Barnes has been appointed head of Professional Lines, with effect from January 2025. He joins from Westfield Specialty, where he held the position of head of Professional Lines – International. Based in London, Barnes will be responsible for building and optimizing Dale’s international professional indemnity business and will report to Ian Bridge, active inderwriter.
“Ryan’s arrival will help us develop new opportunities to diversify and grow into long tail international business,” Bridge commented.
“Our strategy is to build long-term sustainable value across our books, and entering into the Professional Indemnity market is complementary to our Healthcare and Casualty portfolios. This endeavour allows us to further expand our client and broker proposition and optimise our sustainable growth plans,” he added.

Topics
New Markets
Leadership
London
