Bailey Named Chair of Aon UK Ltd. Board
Aon plc, a leading global professional services firm, today announced that it has named Marshall Bailey as non-executive chair of the Aon UK Limited Board, effective Jan. 31, 2023.
Bailey replaces Simon Jeffreys, who joined the board in May 2009 and whose tenure in office ends in January, after seven years as chair.
Bailey currently holds a number of non-executive roles, including chair of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme, chair of MUFG Securities EMEA and chair of MUS (Asia) Hong Kong, and is a member of the Board of Governors of the CFA Institute. He has also held other non-executive positions within financial services and insurance, including at the London Stock Exchange Group, Chubb and CIBC World Markets plc.
“Marshall Bailey brings a wealth of experience and knowledge which will greatly benefit the Board, Aon and our clients. I am very much looking forward to working closely with him over the coming months and years as we continue to help shape better decisions for organisations,” commented Julie Page, chief executive officer of Aon UK.
“I would like to thank Simon for the considerable contribution he has made to the Board and to our firm in the last 13 years. On behalf of the Board and the Executive, I would like to express our huge appreciation for Simon’s commitment, insight, positive influence and counsel,” Page added.
“In his time as chair, he has overseen comprehensive enhancements to our governance, ensured the smooth running of the Board and strengthened key stakeholder relationships. Simon’s support as chair has been enormously valuable to me personally and I wish him all the best as he continues his impressive non-executive career.”
AXA XL Promotes Casby to Head of Upstream Energy, UK & Lloyd’s
AXA XL announced that Laura Casby has been promoted to head of Upstream Energy, UK & Lloyd’s, effective immediately.
Casby is leading AXA XL’s Upstream Energy team, covering both offshore and onshore risks. Based in London, she will develop the Upstream Energy book, expanding on and delivering underwriting strategy and product profitability.
Casby has been with the business since she began her career in 2009 as an underwriting assistant at Catlin. Since then, she has progressed through various underwriting roles – both at XL Catlin and then AXA XL. Most recently, Casby was senior underwriter – Upstream Energy, UK & Lloyd’s.

Topics
Excess Surplus
Lloyd's
Aon
AXA XL
