InsurTech MGA Loadsure announced the launch of its new smart annual cargo product, Cargo Plus.
The new offering is an annualized ocean cargo product that will deliver the financial convenience of a pay-as-you-go policy with the assurance that annual cover provides. Cargo Plus will be offered worldwide and include all-risk coverage for goods and merchandise in transit, with limits of up to $10 million in international and $5 million in U.S. domestic conveyance.
Critically for small to medium-sized businesses (SMBs) that struggle to access cost-effective coverage, there will be no minimum premium required for Cargo Plus. It will also offer a pathway to integration for adjustable premiums with no reporting necessary, and offer flexible payment terms.
“The freight industry is changing fast and needs insurance to match that development. Leveraging our AI-powered dynamic rating model, the launch of Cargo Plus is a significant milestone in the development of Loadsure’s offering,” commented Loadsure CEO Johnny McCord.
“We’re delighted we can offer this state-of-the-art cover that will also empower our assureds – whether manufacturers, distributors, retailers, wholesalers or others – to better understand their risk exposure while providing visibility into business performance.”
About Loadsure
Loadsure leverages AI and automation to provide pay-as-you-go, digital insurance for brokers, shippers, and carriers. Through Loadsure.net and leading TMS platforms, transactional coverage can be automated—or secured in less than 40 seconds—with claims resolved in minutes. Loadsure is a Lloyd’s coverholder.
Source: Loadsure

Topics
InsurTech
Tech
Insurance Wholesale
Trucking
