Efma, the Paris-based financial services association, has unveiled a new name: “Qorus”
Qorus said the name change moves the organization away from being a perceived European association, to one focused on being truly global. It also reinforces its crucial focus on community — Qorus brings to mind a chorus, a group united by common goals, said the group in a statement.
Qorus said it aims to be the catalyst for the reinvention of financial services.
“For over 50 years, we’ve been a cornerstone of the financial services industry,” explained John Berry, CEO of Qorus. “From the very beginning, our mission has been about bringing people and organizations together to learn and innovate. This authentic mission has not changed, but our operating environment has. We recognized that we needed to transform and reinvent our organization to ensure that we can, in turn, help our members to reinvent too.”
Read more: Winners of Innovation in Insurance Awards Excel in Customer Focus, AI, Sustainability
“The all-new Qorus will be more dynamic and future-facing,” said Berry. “It will embrace a global audience whilst reenergizing its core strengths, which are around building the relationships that drive successful innovation.”
Qorus said it will do this in a way that is more digitally focused, more community-led, and more global. To this end, it has updated its products and services to better meet the needs of both members and non-members. This includes a transformed website, more digital networking opportunities through a strengthened online community, more exclusive content, and modernized membership options.
“Ultimately, we are reinforcing our position as a neutral space for members to build the future of financial services, using our knowledge, match-making skills, and insights beyond the traditional world of financial services,” said Berry. “I’m thrilled about our transformation, and believe there’s an exciting future ahead.”
Established in 1971 by banks and insurance companies, Qorus serves financial institutions in more than 120 countries, with offices in Andorra, Bangkok, Bratislava, Brussels, Dubai, Istanbul, Kuala Lumpur, London, Milan, Seoul, and Tokyo.
Source: Qorus