Howden, the London-based insurance intermediary group, announced it has acquired Hencilla Canworth GI Ltd., a leading British independent specialist performing arts insurance broker.
Founded in 1981, based in Croydon, UK, and trading since 2021 as Hencilla Canworth GI Ltd., Hencilla Canworth is an independent specialist insurance broker that provides insurance solutions for the performing and creative arts. It has established insurance schemes with many leading organizations in the sector, including the Musicians’ Union and BECTU (Broadcasting Entertainment Communications and Theatre Union).
The addition of Hencilla Canworth follows a series of other recent acquisitions by Howden’s Sport and Entertainment team across Europe, including Franz Gossler Insurance Group, a German film and entertainment insurance broker; Assimovie, an Italian television and film broking house; and Media Insurance Brokers, a major UK and Irish film and television insurance intermediary.
“We are building our capabilities and expertise to meet the growing demands of our Sport and Entertainment sector clients across all our key markets. Hencilla Canworth’s team have strong relationships with many leading clients in the music and performing arts sectors, presenting us with a significant opportunity to develop our business,” commented Duncan Fraser, global practice leader, Sport and Entertainment, Howden.
“We have established a leading brand in the performing and creative arts insurance sector, with deep expertise and established ties to the industry. Our clients will reap the benefits of us being part of Howden’s global network, which will improve our ability to provide innovative solutions that are tailored to their needs,” according to David Pollard, CEO, Hencilla Canworth.
Founded in 1994, Howden operates in 55 countries across Europe, Africa, Asia, the Middle East, Latin America, the US, Australia, and New Zealand, employing 17,000 people and handling $38 billion of premium on behalf of clients.
Source: Howden

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
