This edition of International People Moves details appointments at three brokers: Guy Carpenter, Marsh and BMS.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Guy Carpenter Announces GC Access Leadership in North America
Reinsurance broker Guy Carpenter announced the appointments of Matt Petka to president of GC Access North America and branch manager of Guy Carpenter’s Dallas office, and Riley Underwood to head of Client Solutions for GC Access, effective immediately.
Petka brings over 22 years of broking experience to the role. He joined Guy Carpenter in 2021 as a managing director at GC Access, and prior to this, was an executive vice president at Willis Re, focusing on MGA and program business.
Underwood is also a highly accomplished senior broker with over 11 years of experience who joined the GC Access team in 2021 as a senior vice president, having previously worked for Willis Re.
With the rapid expansion of the programs market, Guy Carpenter launched GC Access in 2020 as a dedicated offering to help clients capitalize on managing general agent (MGA) solutions.
The practice continues to provide fully integrated and bespoke services across business planning, program carrier selection, capital advisory and modeling support. This strategic network spans over 50 colleagues in North America, Canada and the UK, working closely with the firm’s Global Strategic Advisory and InsurTech Center of Excellence teams.
Marsh Promotes Perry as Global Political Risk & Structured Credit Leader
Marsh, the world’s leading insurance broker and risk adviser, announced the appointment of Rob Perry as Global Political Risk & Structured Credit leader, Marsh Specialty, effective July 1.
Based in London, Perry will report to Nick Robson, global leader, Credit Specialties, Marsh Specialty.
In his new role, Perry will oversee the development of Marsh Specialty’s political risk and structured credit capabilities globally, and will work closely with regional leaders to deliver deep product and industry knowledge that supports clients in mitigating the increasingly complex geopolitical and credit issues they now face.
Perry is currently Marsh’s Asia Credit Specialties leader, a position he has held since 2019. With more 30 years’ experience in the political risk and structured credit insurance market, Perry has worked in the UK, the U.S., and Asia. Before joining Marsh Specialty, Perry spent 20 years at Willis Towers Watson.
“Marsh Specialty has developed a leading position in political risk and structured credit advisory and insurance, through assisting our clients to realise growth while also navigating an unprecedented period of geopolitical and economic risk,” commented Robson.
“This work directly supports critical trade and investment, delivers capital relief, and secures liquidity. Rob is an exceptional leader, and his extensive international experience will help us to strengthen and grow the capabilities of our global team to deliver credit, performance and country risk solutions to our clients in all regions of the world,” Robson added.
With more than 850 colleagues in over 57 countries, Marsh Specialty’s Credit Specialties team brings together key credit risk transfer solutions including political risk & structured credit insurance, trade credit insurance, surety and financial risk products.
WTW’s Hodgkinson to Join BMS Asia as Executive Chair
BMS, the London-based independent specialist insurance and reinsurance broker, announces the appointment of Ted Hodgkinson as the new executive chairman for Asia, effective late November 2022.
Hodgkinson will play a leading part in strengthening BMS’ geographic reach within Asia and ensure a collaborative and client-centred approach across products and specialisms.
Hodgkinson will join BMS from WTW where he spent more than four years, most recently as head of Hong Kong and Macau, as well as head of Corporate Risk and Broking. In his position, he built upon 30 years of Asia Pacific experience in a diverse range of roles and functions including client management, business restructuring and M&A.
Hodgkinson began his career in 1992 at Hogg Robinson, based in London, before moving to Bain Hogg in Sydney, and subsequently to Aon. Throughout his tenure at Aon, he held a range of senior roles, including executive vice-president and chief broking officer. In 2012, he moved to Swiss Re, where he was head of Corporate Solutions, Asia Pacific.
“Ted will help BMS in Asia expand into additional specialisms, potentially extending our expertise to reinsurance, renewable energy, marine, financial lines and capital markets,” commented Sandra Lee, BMS Asia chief executive officer.

Topics
Willis Towers Watson
