Acrisure, the Grand Rapids, Michigan-based insurance broker and fintech specialist, announced it has acquired Scottish insurance broker, WH&R McCartney.
Based in Motherwell and led by Graeme Robb and Alan Kirkwood, WH&R McCartney is a general commercial SME insurance broker operating since 1932.
Yvonne McKnight, Acrisure managing partner, will join the board of WH&R McCartney whilst continuing to run Glasgow-based Affinity Brokers Ltd., which, in 2023, was Acrisure’s first acquisition in Scotland.
Robb and Kirkwood will both play key roles in the new management team. Both of WH&R McCartney’s offices in Glasgow and Motherwell will continue to trade with all existing staff remaining in place.
Scott Meechan, founder and managing director of Affinity, will focus on the growth of Affinity’s embedded insurance offering, which enables customers to purchase coverage at the point of sale, in-store and online.
“Establishing a Scottish platform has been a priority for Affinity following their acquisition in early 2023. While they continue to demonstrate their commitment to Scotland and to the strong expertise that exists in the country, Affinity have realised the value of being a part of a global organisation and the resources this provides,” commented Mark McIlquham, president of Acrisure UK Retail.
“With a strong track record in the Scottish market, the acquisition of WH&R McCartney represents the formation of Acrisure’s Scotland platform and marks the beginning of our growth strategy in this region,” McIlquham added.
Robb, director at WH&R McCartney, said: “This partnership is an exciting step for WH&R McCartney. Acrisure’s global reach and outstanding reputation combined with Affinity’s and our own local market knowledge will allow us to become the Scottish broker of choice for clients of any shape and size.”
In the last nine years, Acrisure has grown in revenue from $38 million to more than $4 billion and now employs over 17,000 colleagues in 22 countries.
Source: Acrisure

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
