Lemonade, the New York-based insurtech, announced the launch of homeowners insurance in France in partnership with BNP Paribas Cardif.
Millions of occupying homeowners can now purchase extensive coverage for their home and belongings. Risks are covered by both BNP Paribas Cardif and Lemonade Insurance N.V., whch act as co-insurers for this offer.
The launch builds on Lemonade’s entrance into France in December 2020, when it began offering artificial-intelligence (AI) powered renters insurance to protect residents’ belongings.
With Lemonade’s European business making significant strides in 2023, the launch of homeowners insurance throughout France will support the company’s continued growth as it expands globally.
BNP Paribas Cardif France will be able to offer this fully digital home insurance to its distribution partners, while Lemonade will benefit from the experience of an insurer with a widely recognized brand that has been operating in the French market for 50 years, Lemonade said.
Lemonade’s Homeowners insurance is specifically crafted for customers in France, with the ability to get instantly covered through the Lemonade app, starting from 10 euros per month. On top of the industry base coverage – which includes fire, water damage, reconstruction costs and civil liability – the policy also provides a suite of add-ons to provide full-scope coverage and flexibility, including:
“The European market was our fastest growing business last year,” said Daniel Schreiber, Lemonade CEO and co-founder, in a statement. “We’re now graduating from being a monoline to a multi-line insurer in Europe. Combined with our thriving partnership with a trusted, prestigious brand like BNP Paribas Cardif, we’re excited for this next chapter for our European business.”
Lemonade’s European headquarters are located in Amsterdam. The company is licensed and supervised by the Dutch Central Bank (DNB), operating in France under the European Freedom of Services regime (which permits licensing across the European Union).
Residents of France can now buy a new policy through the Lemonade App, lemonade.com/fr, or through BNP Paribas Cardif at cardif.fr.
About Lemonade
Lemonade offers enters and homeowners insurance in France, contents and personal liability insurance in Germany and the Netherlands, and contents insurance in the UK. It also offer homeowners, renters, car, pet, and life products across the US.
Photograph: Timbered houses of Petite France in Strasbourg, France.
Related:

Topics
New Markets
Homeowners
