This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Hiscox Re & ILS, Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI), and Aon’s Reinsurance Solutions
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Hiscox Re & ILS Hires Hamilton Re’s Shah as Director of Underwriting Risk
Hiscox Re & ILS, the reinsurance and insurance linked securities arm of the specialist global insurer Hiscox, has appointed Minesh Shah as its new director of Underwriting Risk.
Shah will join on May 1 and will be responsible for driving optimization across Hiscox Re & ILS’ reinsurance portfolio and those for third party capital. Based in Bermuda, he will become a member of the Hiscox Re & ILS executive team and will report to Kathleen Reardon, CEO of Hiscox Re & ILS.
A qualified actuary, Shah has over 25 years of experience in property and casualty reinsurance across Bermuda and London. He is currently chief actuary and chief risk officer at Hamilton Re, where he is responsible for all aspects of reserving, pricing, and capital modelling. Prior to Hamilton Re, Shah held a number of senior roles in underwriting risk in Bermuda and London with Platinum Underwriters, Renaissance Re and XL Catlin.
“I am delighted to have Minesh join Hiscox Re & ILS. His extensive experience in reinsurance pricing, reserving and risk management will complement our existing risk team. As we look to seize the opportunities in this hard market, Minesh’s expertise will be a great asset,” commented Reardon.
BHSI Appoints 3 Claims Execs in Germany
Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI) announced it has named three executives to claims leadership roles in Germany.
Sandra Leyendecker has been promoted to head of Casualty Claims. She joined BHSI in 2022 as senior casualty claims examiner, bringing more than 20 years of industry experience to the role.
Ingo Lorber joins BHSI as head of Property Claims. He has nearly 30 years of industry experience, most recently customizing claims handling for major claims at Zurich Insurance.
Michael Brobach has been named head of Executive & Professional Lines Claims. He comes to BHSI from AXA XL where he held increasingly senior positions managing financial lines claims for nearly 15 years.
“Sandra has been an invaluable asset to BHSI and our customers, embodying our CLAIMS IS OUR PRODUCT® philosophy to ensure excellent service to customers and brokers throughout the DACH region and around the globe. With the addition of Ingo and Michael, we have in place exceptional claims leaders who will further elevate our claims teams and the service and certainty we bring to customers,” said Andreas Krause, head of DACH, BHSI.
All three leaders will be based in Cologne. Leyendecker can be reached at sandra.leyendecker@bhspecialty.com, Lorber at ingo.lorber@bhspecialty.com and Brobach at michael.brobach@bhspecialty.com.
Aon’s Reinsurance Solutions Taps AXA XL’s Grigg for U.S. Cyber
David Grigg has joined Aon’s Reinsurance Solutions as executive managing director to lead its U.S. Cyber Reinsurance team, effective immediately.
Grigg’s wealth of experience in both broking and underwriting roles will enhance Aon’s cyber offering as he develops the firm’s product segment strategy with a team of broking and analytics experts, the broker said. He joins from AXA XL where he was responsible for the North America Cybertech portfolio focusing on profitability and portfolio optimization through the implementation of growth strategies, while also executing underwriting actions to mitigate the impact of extortion and ransom attacks.
Grigg will be based in Aon’s New York office, reporting to Randy Stanco, co-leader of the New York/New Jersey Reinsurance Treaty Office and co-U.S. Strategic Growth Leader.
“Cyber is an evolving line of business on which Aon is focused to bring clients robust solutions and capabilities to meet their needs, especially as cyber risks and the industry’s role within this area continues to develop,” Stanco said. “David brings a vast amount of expertise and knowledge to lead and continue to expand our cyber segmentation strategy, as well as further develop a dedicated team to this important line of business.”

Topics
Cyber
Claims
Aon
AXA XL
Germany
