This edition of International People Moves details appointments at the brokers Price Forbes and Marsh.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Ardonagh’s Price Forbes Taps Horler From Lockton as Deputy CEO
Sarah Horler has been appointed as Price Forbes‘ new deputy chief executive officer.
Horler takes up her new role (which is subject to regulatory approval) in May 2024. She joins the leadership team of Ardonagh Specialty’s insurance segment, working alongside Price Forbes trading CEOs Andrew Draycott, Conor Geraghty and Graham Kilby.
Horler has spent the last 18 years at Lockton, latterly as a partner and executive committee member of its Private Equity Corporate Acquisitions Practice (PECAP), where she was responsible for the portfolio managers as well as clients across banking, financial institutions, commodities, shipping and professional services.
She previously held several management roles, including operational management and executing on a number of board projects. Prior to Lockton, Horler worked at Marsh.
She brings with her extensive experience managing complex projects and portfolios, working with global clients across multiple territories and sectors, building robust relationships with insurers – and inspiring large teams.
“Sarah’s fantastic reputation precedes her, and I feel incredibly lucky to have her on board to help steer Price Forbes into the future,” commented Andrew Wallin, CEO of Ardonagh Specialty.
“If we’re going to build on our own reputation, and continue to place complex risks for our clients, empower the next generation of brokers and drive progress across the industry – we need to harness the skills of the very best leaders. Sarah definitely fits that description, and I’m looking forward to having her solutions-orientated drive, creativity and wisdom behind our sails.”
Operating under the brands Bishopsgate and Price Forbes, London-based Ardonagh Specialty has circa 1400 colleagues globally, manages more than $7 billion in gross written premium and is the fifth largest Lloyd’s broker. Ardonagh Specialty is part of the Ardonagh Group.
Marsh Names Former McGill and Partners Exec as Int’l Cyber Product Leader
Marsh, the insurance broking business of Marsh McLennan, announced the appointment of Shannan Fort as international cyber product leader, Marsh Specialty.
Effective April 1, Fort will be based in London and report to Gregory Eskins, global cyber insurance center leader, and Kelly Butler, UK cyber leader, Marsh Specialty.
As part of the newly created Global Cyber Insurance Center, which launched on Jan. 1, Fort will focus on product innovation and commercialisation and services that support clients in developing robust risk management and resilience strategies that respond to existing and emerging cyber threats. She will work closely with Marsh McLennan’s cyber risk experts to provide technical product support and training to clients globally.
Fort will bring over 16 years’ international experience to the role and will join from McGill and Partners, where she has served as a partner – Financial Lines, Cyber, since November 2020. Previously, Fort worked for Aon for 13 years in various leadership roles in New York and London, including cyber product development leader in Aon’s Global Broking Centre.
“Cyber risk remains an urgent, volatile, and evolving challenge to our clients’ enterprises and their resiliency; many organisations continue to strive towards building effective and efficient cyber risk mitigation and insurance programmes that will protect their people and assets in the event of a critical cyber event,” Eskins commented.
“Shannan will play a central role in advancing cyber risk management and insurance solutions in support of our clients’ need to address these rapidly evolving cyber threats, and capitalise on the possibilities presented by new and emerging technologies,” he added.

Topics
Cyber
Leadership
