RMS, the Newark, Calif.-based risk modeling company, announced that Michael Steel has been appointed to its top leadership position of general manager. Steel succeeds Karen White, who has recently stepped down following the completion of the Moody’s acquisition.
With more than 30 years of experience in the risk and capital management gained in the insurance industry, Steel most recently served as global head of Business Development at RMS and has been at the company since 2016. Steel will work directly with Steve Tulenko, president of Moody’s Analytics, along with the Moody’s and RMS senior management teams to ensure RMS continues its mission and vision.
Prior to RMS, Steel served as the group chief risk officer at AXIS Capital, following a career in reinsurance broking, including 12 years at Benfield (later Aon Benfield and now Aon Reinsurance Solutions). In addition to his role with RMS, he serves as an independent non-executive director on the board of Allianz Re Dublin dac.
Previously, Steel served as an independent non-executive director on the board of Berkshire Hathaway’s international business, as an appointed director on the Casualty Actuarial Society, and as chairman of the Geneva Association’s CRO Network. He holds a bachelor’s degree with honors in statistics and mathematics from Brunel University.
“I’m honored to have this opportunity at RMS, and excited to achieve our vision to ‘make every risk known’ to help our customers make better decisions and be more resilient,” said Steel.
“Together with Moody’s, our focus is to deliver Moody’s broader set of data and analytics to the insurance sector, expand our core offerings beyond the insurance sector, and accelerate the development of global integrated risk capabilities to address the next generation of risk assessment,” he added.
Source: RMS