This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Arch Insurance and Chubb Overseas General.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Arch Insurance Taps Symenouh From Tokio Marine as Senior Cyber Underwriter
Arch Insurance has appointed Ezechiel Symenouh as a senior cyber underwriter, effective immediately.
Symenouh joins Arch Insurance (EU) dac (AIEU), which provides specialist property and casualty insurance solutions within the European Union. Based in Paris, he is responsible for developing the company’s European cyber insurance portfolio, with a particular focus on France, Benelux and the Nordic regions.
A highly respected figure in the European cyber market, Symenouh joins AIEU from Tokio Marine HCC where he was most recently a cyber underwriter. Prior to this, he was a Cyber Risk Practice leader at WTW France.
The AIEU cyber division provides standalone and combined cyber & tech solutions, on a primary and excess basis across a wide range of sectors including manufacturing, retail and financial institutions.
This follows the recent announcement by Arch Insurance of the appointment of Rachida Laazaouzi as senior casualty underwriter in Paris.
Chubb Promotes Latter to Lead Claims for Overseas General Insurance
Chubb announced the appointment of John Latter to lead Claims for Chubb Overseas General (COG), effective immediately.
In his new role as head of Claims, COG, Latter will oversee Chubb’s claims organization in Europe, the Middle East, Asia Pacific, Latin America and the Far East, leading a team of 3,000 professionals. He will continue to be based in London.
In his previous role as senior vice president, claims director for Europe, Eurasia & Africa, Latter led the strategic claims direction for property, casualty, financial lines, marine, aviation and energy claims.
Latter has four decades of experience across the insurance industry. He joined Chubb in 2017 from Zurich Insurance where he held a number of senior claims roles with both UK and international responsibilities.

Topics
Cyber
Claims
Underwriting
Chubb
