This edition of International People Moves details appointments at the brokers Howden Tiger and Miller.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Howden, the London-based insurance group, announced the appointment of Enrico Bertagna as managing director, leading the MGA division of its reinsurance arm in Europe.
Howden said the appointment bolsters its MGA/programme broking business, which currently places a combined $6 billion of GWP, and positions it to grow significantly in Europe.
Bertagna is a highly experienced insurance executive with over 30 years’ experience, spending over 20 years working for Lloyd’s in Europe, and subsequently leading business development for Allied World. Most recently, he led the MGA Network and MGA Solutions at Zurich Insurance.
“We see huge opportunity in Europe for growth in the MGA and fronting space, and expect to see premiums in European MGAs rise rapidly from the current position of approximately $10 billion of premium,” commented Elliot Richardson, vice-chair, Howden Tiger.
“It is therefore critical that Howden has the talent and local expertise in place to provide European MGAs, coverholders and continental capacity providers with further opportunities to grow profitably. I am confident that we will be the go-to adviser in the European MGA market and Enrico is the perfect person to lead our MGA/Programme offering in the region,” he added.
Founded in 1994, Howden operates in 50 countries across Europe, Africa, Asia, the Middle East, Latin America, the U.S., Australia and New Zealand, employing 15,000 people and handling $35 billion of premium on behalf of clients.
Miller Appoints Bisbas as Chair of Marine Mutual Reinsurance and Head of Mutual War
Miller, the London-based specialist re/insurance broker, announced the appointment of Andreas Bisbas as chairman of Marine Mutual Reinsurance and head of Mutual War within the Marine team.
Bisbas will join in late November 2023 and report to Phil Wheeler, head of Marine at Miller.
Bisbas joins Miller from his role as managing director of Tsakos Shipping (London) Ltd. and director of Argosy Insurance Co.
In addition, Bisbas has been an active member of a number of high-profile marine boards and committees, including for the Britannia P&I Club, ITOPF, Maritime London and 10 years as chairman of the International Chamber of Shipping’s Insurance Committee.
His appointment will further strengthen Miller’s team responsible for the International Group of P&I Clubs, individual P&I Club reinsurance and war mutual clients, said Miller in a statement.
As part of the Marine team’s wider growth strategy, Stuart Williams, currently War Practice leader, will become head of New Business, Mutual War, with immediate effect, focusing on growing Miller’s client base within the mutual war sector.
The appointments continue the expansion of Miller’s Marine team and follow the recent additions of Nick Lockyer, Lee Bright and Craig Dennis to the Direct Marine team, and Pene Reuben to the Marine Liability Reinsurance team.
“We are delighted that Andreas has chosen to join Miller. He has very significant experience in all aspects of Marine Insurance, and excellent relationships at the most senior level within the International Group of P&I Clubs, the marine re/insurance market and wider marine community,” commented Wheeler.
“I am very pleased to be joining Miller in this exciting role. I took the decision to change posts after 18 immensely satisfying years at Tsakos Shipping and seek a new role within the industry which would enable me to contribute positively. By joining Miller, with its market-leading position with the war mutuals and the International Group of P&I Clubs and already high performing team, I [have been] given the opportunity to work with the most prestigious clients whilst supporting an excellent and growing team.”

Topics
Europe
Insurance Wholesale
