This edition of International People Moves details appointments at re/insurance broker Consilium and the insurer Chubb.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Ed Broking’s Baird Takes Leadership Role at Aventum
Consilium, the international re/insurance broker, part of The Aventum Group, has announced that James Baird is joining the broker in a senior leadership position.
Baird joins Consilium from Ardonagh-owned Ed Broking where he was director of its Strategic Risk Group. He will work alongside Aventum’s leadership team, to manage the strategic direction and growth of Consilium globally.
David Bearman, chief executive officer for Aventum, commented: “I’m very excited to welcome James to the Aventum family. With his leadership skills and particular expertise in the financial lines broking market, he will play a key strategic role in growing our global broking business with retail broking partners and direct policyholder clients. Supported by the board, James will be responsible for bringing Consilium to new territories and product lines and building upon the existing Consilium brand and client base.
Chubb Appoints AGCS’ Nicklin as Global Client Executive for UK, Ireland
Chubb announced the appointment of Ed Nicklin as global client executive (GCE) for the UK and Ireland (UKI).
In his new role Nicklin will be responsible for managing and developing relationships with existing and newly acquired major accounts clients and helping to create strategies that will further growth opportunities within the UKI Major Accounts Division.
Nicklin will be based in London and will report to Nick Lee, head of Major Accounts Division, UKI. His appointment is effective immediately.
Before joining Chubb, Nicklin was head of Portfolio Solution at Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty (AGCS), where he worked more than eight years, according to his LinkedIn profile. Prior to AGCS, he was a broker development manager at Zurich Financial Services.
He has worked in the insurance industry for more than 18 years and holds an Advanced Diploma in Insurance from the Chartered Insurance Institute.
“I am delighted to welcome Ed Nicklin to our UKI Major Accounts team. He is a very well-known and popular figure in the market and brings with him a wealth of expertise and insights gained from almost two decades working with brokers, risk managers and insurance buyers from key multinational businesses,” said Lee. “Major accounts clients often have complex needs which change constantly and Ed’s experience makes him perfectly placed to work with our broker partners so that we can best support our clients and contribute to the continued growth of this important part of our business.”

Topics
Leadership
Chubb
