This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Aon and Miller.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Aon Taps Carpenter’s Fraccalvieri to Lead EMEA Facultative for Reinsurance Solutions
Insurance broker Aon plc named Nicola Fraccalvieri as leader of the EMEA Facultative team within Reinsurance Solutions.
Based in London and reporting to Alfonso Valera and Tomas Novotny, EMEA co-CEOs of Aon’s Reinsurance Solutions, and Andrew Laing, Facultative CEO of Reinsurance Solutions, Fraccalvieri re-joins Aon from Guy Carpenter, where he was head of continental Europe Facultative and head of London Facultative for casualty, specialty and financial lines.
In his new role, Fraccalvieri will work with colleagues across EMEA, Risk Capital, and the wider Aon network to help clients to protect and grow their businesses.
“Our facultative capabilities have continued to create value for our clients in 2023 as we have successfully expanded available capital and brought facultative solutions to bear for clients. This has helped them to navigate volatility in the often-challenging global reinsurance markets,” commented Laing. “Building upon this momentum, we are delighted to welcome Nicola to the team. His knowledge and expertise will be a value driver for clients, as he helps them to shape better business decisions.”
Miller Expands Reinsurance Offering With Launch of APAC Treaty Team
Miller, the London-based independent specialist re/insurance broker, announced a significant expansion of its reinsurance offering through the establishment of a new treaty reinsurance team in APAC.
The team will be led by Richard Broad as head of Treaty APAC. Broad was most recently regional head of Reinsurance for Lockton APAC, based in Singapore. He has over 25 years’ experience in reinsurance broking.
Broad will be joined by four other senior appointments: Bruce Ford and Pei Nee Goi in Singapore and Jo Garnett and Hui Sin Low based in Malaysia.
These appointments support Miller’s broader growth strategies for both Asia and reinsurance. Miller has made a number of senior appointments in Asia since returning to independence in 2021, as well as acquiring Japanese specialist broker Lead Insurance in 2022. In total Miller now has 50 employees in Asia across Singapore, Malaysia and Japan and has plans to continue its rapid growth in the region.
“APAC is a central pillar of Miller’s international growth strategy and a market in which we see clear long-term opportunities. We want to establish meaningful and value-add reinsurance capabilities in the region and establishing this new team is a significant milestone,” commented Ron Whyte, head of Miller Asia.
“Richard, Bruce, Jo, Pei Nee and Hui Sin are highly experienced senior practitioners; they are all experts in their subject matter with a deep understanding of the region and I am confident they will hit the ground running. It will be exciting to bring new products and solutions to our clients and see our reinsurance footprint grow,” Whyte said.
“Miller has clear ambitions to grow in APAC and this can be seen from the investments and hires it has made over the last 18 months,” Broad said.

Topics
Reinsurance
Aon
