NFP, the New York City-based property/casualty insurance broker and consultant, announced the acquisition of Dublin-based health and life insurance adviser, Tailored Finance Ltd.
This is NFP’s first healthcare-focused acquisition in the Irish market, which expand its portfolio of services and solutions. Tailored Finance’s managing director, Jeremy Tucker, will join NFP and report to Colm Power, director, NFP in Ireland.
Financial details of the acquisition were not disclosed.
Established in 2008, Tailored Finance is among the leading independent health insurance brokers in the Irish market, generating gross written annual premiums last year valued at €25 million. The company will continue to service customers under its existing name.
“Acquiring Tailored Finance’s boutique business is significant for our growth in Ireland, and I’m thrilled to welcome Jeremy and his team to NFP,” commented Power. “They have a wealth of experience working with Irish and multinational corporations and are regarded among the best healthcare advisers in Ireland. Tailored Finance enhances our portfolio to deliver the healthcare solutions our clients need.”
“We are very excited to join NFP and believe our shared vision will help drive excellent results for our customers,” said Tucker. “NFP has a rapidly growing business in Ireland and is an incredible resource for us to leverage internally and with our clients. I want to thank my team for their tremendous work and commitment, and our customers and partners for their support. We look forward to continuing to create extraordinary value together.”
“I’m delighted to welcome Tailored Finance to NFP,” said Matt Pawley, president, NFP in Europe. “We have acquired a business with a great reputation in the industry and in Ireland. They will provide invaluable insight into the health insurance market at a time when clients need more expertise and guidance to achieve their objectives.”
This announcement marks NFP’s fifth acquisition in the country within the past two years, continuing the company’s ongoing expansion in Ireland. NFP has also acquired HMP Insurance and Pension Advisors, Aiken Insurance Ltd., ReSure Corporate Brokers and Simon Shirley Advisors.
Source: NFP

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
