The Jensten Group has announced its acquisition of the schemes broker, Darwin Clayton, for an undisclosed amount.
The deal, which is subject to regulatory approval, brings 44 staff, 2,300 clients and more than £20 million ($23.9 million) in gross written premiums to Jensten. The business has headquarters in Tunbridge Wells, England, with a further regional office in Nottingham.
The firm delivers tailored solutions to the contracting sector and marked 100 years of trading in 2020.
Darwin Clayton manages a range of specialist schemes, providing insurance solutions for a number of sectors including cleaning, security, facilities management, and electrical contracting. Working in partnership with key sectors and trade bodies forms part of the DNA of the business, which has relationships with British Institute of Cleaning Science, Cleaning & Support Services Association and National Association of Shopfitters, among others.
The business offers products both directly to clients as well as to UK brokers, via the Darwin Clayton Partner Brokers brand.
Darwin Clayton CEO Simon Henderson will report to Jensten Retail Managing Director Rob Organ and will continue to lead the business as it targets further organic growth and the development of new affinity schemes.
Darwin Clayton will sit alongside the existing regional and specialist teams of Jensten Insurance Brokers as a focused centre of excellence for schemes and affinity business, complementing the various successful schemes in operation across the Jensten Group, including pharmacy, hair and beauty, cosmetics and training, the company said.
“Darwin Clayton is a highly respected specialist schemes broker. I’m delighted that they have chosen to join Jensten at a time where we’re focused on building our schemes capability, enabling us to deliver market-leading propositions that meet the needs of different communities of clients with specialist niche requirements,” commented Organ.
“We wanted to join a group where our specialisms, staff and expertise would be valued, and where we’d be supported to continue growing the business and delivering for both clients and our partner brokers,” said Henderson. “It was clear to us that Jensten met those criteria and was a fit when it came to our focus on people and culture. We are delighted to be joining the Jensten family and continuing to build a world-class business.”
Source: Jensten Group

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
