Antares Global Management Ltd. announced three key appointments for its new Commercial Division, which comprises Syndicate 1274 and Bermuda-based Antares Re.
Antares announced in November that it was restructuring its underwriting operations by spitting its Bermuda and UK re/insurance businesses into Commercial and Retail divisions.
The Commercial unit is led by Mark Graham, CEO of the Antares Commercial Division, while Pantelis Koulovasilopoulos is the CEO of the new Retail division. (The Retail division includes the recently launched UK-based insurer, Antares Insurance Co. Ltd., which is focusing on retail business primarily through established MGAs in the UK.)
In the Commercial division, Graham is being supported by a new leadership team of three divisional heads, as follows:
Martin Campbell has been appointed head of the Casualty FinPro Division, and chair of the Antares Underwriting Committee. He will also take on the role of acting head of the Reinsurance Division. Campbell will, subject to board and regulatory approval processes, also be appointed to the Antares Managing Agency Ltd. (AMAL) board as AMAL’s chief underwriting officer.
Additionally, subject to Lloyd’s approval, Campbell will be designated active underwriter for Syndicate 1274. He joined Antares in March 2019 as head of Financial Institutions, and from May 2020 was appointed head of Specialty. Prior to joining Antares, Campbell worked at The Channel Syndicate and Newline Group.
James Glynn has been appointed as the head of the Marine Division. Glynn joined Antares in October 2011 as a specie underwriter, and from January 2017 onwards was the class underwriter for Specie business. Prior to Antares, he was at Willis Towers Watson.
James Thomas has been appointed head of the Specialty Division, a new division comprising political & financial risks, terrorism, and accident & health. Thomas joined Antares in December 2015 as a political and financial risks underwriter and became class underwriter in January 2020. Prior to Antares, he worked at AIG.
“I am delighted to be able to announce the leadership structure that we have put in place for the new Antares Commercial Division,” commented Graham.
“Martin, James and James are all talented individuals and under their leadership I look forward to continued strong performance on both the syndicate and reinsurance areas of the business in 2025,” he added. “Congratulations to them all in taking on these new roles, which also reflect our growth and success as a business under the leadership of Mike van der Straaten [CEO of Antares Global Management] .”
Antares (formerly QIC Global) is the international operations of Qatar Insurance Group, a major insurer in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region.

Topics
Commercial Lines
Business Insurance
New Markets
Leadership
