Brokerslink has added Ardonagh Specialty to its international network.
Three businesses within Ardonagh Specialty – Ed Broking, Ed Bermuda and Piiq Risk Partners – are existing Brokerslink partners, and remain in the network. The new move brings in the entire Ardonagh Specialty business into Brokerslink as partners, including brands Price Forbes, Bishopsgate, Compass London Markets, Besso, and Inver Re.
Ardonagh Specialty represents a significant addition to the broking network, which already has partners and affiliates in over 130 countries.
The move strengthens the network’s access to the London and Lloyd’s markets, as well as a breadth of specialty market expertise and broking solutions.
“The addition of Ardonagh Specialty to our network is a significant moment for Brokerslink,” commented Brokerslink Chairman and Founder José Manuel Fonseca. “They bring a new strength and depth of specialty market expertise and broking solutions to our existing partners and affiliates. This is what our network is all about.”
“Brokerslink gives our businesses access to a truly global network of local, specialist knowledge around the world,” said Antony Erotocritou, CEO of Ardonagh Specialty. “Our experience with Ed and Piiq has already shown the benefits of being part of such a network. Extending this access to the whole of Ardonagh Specialty is a logical step and one I am confident will bring broader benefits and greater London specialty market expertise to their network.”
Zug, Switzerland-based Brokerslink is a global broking company that owns and manages a worldwide insurance broking network.
Source: Brokerslink

Topics
Agencies
Excess Surplus
