This edition of International People Moves details appointments at AXA XL in Bermuda and the London-based insurance broker, Miller.
A summary of these new hires follows.
AXA XL Appoints Owen for Bermuda Professional Lines Team
AXA XL announced that Bermudian Tyler Owen will rejoin its Bermuda Professional Lines Team as SVP, Product Line Leader, effective Oct. 31.
Owen, who will report to AXA XL’s Bermuda Professional Lines Chief Underwriting Officer Matthew Irvine, will primarily be responsible for managing AXA XL’s Bermuda Professional Directors and Officers portfolio, as well as underwriting errors & omissions, employment practices liability, wage & hour, and cyber liability on a book of business comprised of large multi-national companies and professional service firms.
Owen began his insurance career in 2009 as a professional associate underwriter, Professional Lines, at Chubb (formerly ACE Ltd.) in New York. In 2011 he joined XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd., now known as AXA XL, as a professional lines underwriter and in 2013 was promoted to assistant vice president, Professional Lines. In that role, he was involved in the underwriting of a profitable portfolio and spearheaded the development of an innovative analytical tool to assess the risk of each account of the portfolio in real-time. In 2017 he left the company to focus on completing an MBA program and pursue his own business interests.
Owen, who attended The Royal Military Academy Sandhurst in the UK as a part of the Bermuda Regiment’s officer-training programme, has a Bachelor of Science degree in Risk Management and Insurance from St. John’s University in New York and an MBA from the Ivey Business School of Western University in Canada. He has also earned Chartered Property Casualty Underwriter and Registered Professional Liability Underwriter designations.
Patrick Tannock, CEO of AXA XL’s Bermuda Insurance Operations, commented: “Tyler’s return to AXA XL in this senior position is testament to his professional progress and our culture and commitment to attract, develop and advance local talent. We welcome him back and wish him much success in his new role.”
Miller Names Beazley’s O’Connor as Chief Information Officer
Miller, the London-based independent re/insurance broker, announced the appointment of Bradley O’Connor as chief information officer, effective Oct. 31, 2022.
He reports to Dana Cuffe, Miller’s chief operating officer.
O’Connor brings over 20 years’ industry experience to Miller, specializing over the course of his career in transformation, process optimisation and building high-performing technology and data teams. He joins from Beazley, where he was most recently head of Technology for five years, overseeing IT and Change for the UK and global markets. O’Connor has also held IT Project Management roles at Hiscox, Brit Insurance, Cardiff Pinnacle, Aon Hewitt and Lloyd’s TSB.
Bradley’s focus will be to create a scalable technology and data platform that enables smarter, faster, better broking. His key priorities will include enhancing the capabilities Miller provides to its clients, as well as delivering new internal capabilities to increase automation and efficiency and enable greater data-driven decision making.
Dana Cuffe, chief operating officer, commented: “We are delighted to welcome Bradley to Miller. His extensive experience in building and leading technology teams across the insurance industry will strengthen our existing technology capabilities, ensuring that we continue to evolve with our clients and partners to deliver the best possible service. Bradley is highly regarded within the market as a technology and change expert and will make an excellent addition to us as we invest in making Miller the definition of a truly modern specialty broker.”

Topics
Liability
AXA XL
Professional Liability
