MS Amlin Underwriting Ltd. (MS AUL), the Lloyd’s re/insurer, announced the appointment of Andrew Carrier as chief executive officer.
Carrier, currently MS AUL’s chief underwriting officer (CUO), will take up the role on Jan. 1, 2023, subject to regulatory approval.
Carrier brings more than two decades of leadership experience in international re/insurance markets, taking up his new role after two years as MS AUL’s CUO. He has played a pivotal role in transforming MS AUL’s underwriting strategy and portfolio, creating a more sustainable future for the company and helping it return to profitability.
Prior to his role at MS AUL, Carrier spent six years at Everest Re, where he was responsible for the firm’s London Market, Continental Europe, and Asia Pacific reinsurance operations. His career also includes serving as Group CUO at Argo for seven years and more than two decades at Kiln.
Carrier succeeds Johan Slabbert who has been appointed as CEO of MSIG Holdings (U.S.A.) Inc. In this newly created role, Slabbert will be responsible for driving forward the U.S. growth strategy of Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance (MSI) – MS AUL’s parent company – as it seeks to build on its growing domestic foundations, following the proposed acquisition of Transverse LLC, in August this year, subject to regulatory approval.
Slabbert will remain with MS AUL until the end of the year to support a smooth transition and regulatory handover.
“I am delighted to announce Andrew’s appointment as MS AUL’s new CEO. Andrew has demonstrated exceptional leadership over the past two years, particularly through the measures he has put in place to create a best-in-class underwriting function with a relentless focus on client-service and profitability,” commented Shinichiro Funabiki, CEO at Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co. Ltd.
“I am confident that Andrew will continue with the great work that he, alongside the broader executive team, is doing to modernise and future proof the business. We remain fully committed to supporting MS AUL as the momentum builds behind its long-term growth strategy and its objective to become a leading Lloyd’s syndicate with a sustainable future.”
He then congratulated Slabbert on his new role in the U.S.
“Johan’s commitment and contribution to MS AUL’s transformation has been outstanding, leading its successful return to profitability and significantly enhancing its future prospects. We’re looking forward to continuing to work closely with him as he spearheads MSI’s ambitious growth plans in the crucial U.S. market,” said Funabiki.
Source: MS Amlin Underwriting Ltd

Topics
Carriers
Excess Surplus
Underwriting
Reinsurance
Lloyd's
Mississippi
