This edition of International People Moves details resignations and appointments at two insurers — Everest Group and Tokio Marine Kiln — and the managing general agent Coalition.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Karmilowicz to Resign as Chair of Everest Global Insurance After 9 Months
Mike Karmilowicz is resigning from his role as chairman, Everest Global Insurance – a position he has held since March 2024.
Everest Group Ltd. announced the resignation in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing on Dec. 2, 2024. Everest has not provided an explanation for his departure.
Prior to his current role, Karmilowicz served as president and CEO of Everest Insurance from 2020 to 2024. He joined the company in 2015 and served as president of Everest Specialty Underwriters Services until he assumed the chairmanship of Everest Global Insurance in March.
Prior to Everest, he spent six years at Zurich in various positions, including as executive vice president, head of Management & Professional Liability. Karmilowicz also spent 10 years at The Hartford leading several management and professional lines of business.
Tokio Marine Kiln Taps AXIS’s Furness-Smith as APAC Cyber U/W
Tokio Marine Kiln (TMK) announced the appointment of Georgina Furness-Smith as cyber underwriter in Asia Pacific. She will take up her new role on Jan. 2.
Furness-Smith is a cyber insurance specialist who brings more than five years of underwriting experience to the team. She joins from AXIS Capital, where she held the role of senior cyber underwriter and was responsible for building a cyber property damage portfolio.
Based in Singapore, TMK’s APAC cyber team has enjoyed significant growth since its inception in August 2023. In her new role Furness-Smith will focus on further expanding TMK’s presence in key markets across the region and maintaining and accelerating the team’s rapid growth.
This appointment is the latest in a series of new hires for TMK in Singapore, following the appointments of Alex Ampatzis as head of Marine, APAC, in October and Stephanie Hong as marine underwriter in September.
Coalition Adds Kanno to UK Cybersecurity Team
Coalition, the San Francisco-based cyber managing general agent and cybersecurity firm, has added Rob Kanno to its UK Security Support Centre as a senior security support analyst, reporting to Ryan Gregory, head of Security Support.
Kanno, who is based in Manchester, England, began his career in the IT sector as a teacher of computer science, a role he held for five years. In January 2023, he moved into cybersecurity with e2e-assure, the threat detection and response specialists, where he worked as a cyber security analyst and consultant.
Coalition continues to expand its global presence with new hires across Europe. In October, Tine Simonsen joined as Coalition’s European head of Insurance, and in November, Matt Foster joined as head of London Market.

Topics
Cyber
