BMS Australia, the London-based specialist insurance and reinsurance broker, announced the launch of its Agriculture business with Ceri Martin appointed to lead the division. The establishment of this new business is part of BMS’ global strategy to deepen its expertise in speciality lines within its chosen markets.
Martin brings a wealth of experience in agriculture to BMS Australia, joining from Nutrien, a global farming services company. Over the years, Martin has held various roles, from property underwriting to establishing a farm broking portfolio, advancing to an agricultural risk advisory specialist. She has worked in diverse regions in Australia, including Brisbane, the Northern Territory, and Toowoomba/Western Downs.
Joining as the head of Agriculture at BMS Australia, Martin has a track record of delivering tailored insurance solutions and a deep understanding of agricultural needs, BMS said, noting that in addition to disease insurance products, the division offers access to cutting-edge carbon insurance solutions and weather insurance, alongside traditional property and casualty insurances.
Farmers now face a range of issues, from climate and sustainability challenges to supply chain complexities. BMS is well-positioned to help farmers navigate these evolving risks. Leveraging strong market relationships and its wholesale and MGA capabilities locally and globally, BMS offers tailored insurance solutions that are truly fit for purpose in the agricultural industry.
“We are truly thrilled to announce the launch of our agriculture division, and there is no one better suited to lead it than Ceri. As a growing specialty retail broker, which understands the importance of building close relationships with our clients, we see numerous opportunities to expand into agriculture and collaborate with farmers across Australia,” commented Andrew Godden, chief executive of BMS’ Australian business.
“The landscape of Australian agriculture has significantly shifted and as farming becomes more sophisticated, digital agriculture is becoming increasingly crucial,” said Martin.
“There is a need to support our farmers as they navigate these changes, safeguarding their farms and addressing a market gap by offering dynamic and innovative solutions instead of traditional insurance options. I am excited to build and strengthen relationships with our clients to help them navigate this evolving landscape,” she added.
Source: BMS

Topics
New Markets
Agribusiness
Australia
