This edition of International People Moves details appointments at SCOR Business Solutions and the re/insurance broker Consilium.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
SCOR Business Solutions Taps HDI’s McDonald as CEO, Succeeding Launay
Reinsurer SCOR has named Claire McDonald as CEO of SCOR Business Solutions (SBS), the company’s large corporate risks insurance unit, previously named SCOR Specialty Insurance.
She will also serve as a member of the Executive Committee.
McDonald will be responsible for affirming SBS’s position as a technical specialty commercial insurer, focusing on building a balanced and resilient portfolio, SCOR said.
Based in London, McDonald will report to Jean-Paul Conoscente, CEO of SCOR P&C. Her appointment will take effect on Sept. 1, 2024.
Romain Launay, who was previously CEO of SCOR Specialty Insurance, is leaving the group to pursue new professional opportunities after 12 years with the company.
McDonald began her career in 1987 as an underwriter at the Allianz group in the UK. After underwriting in commercial lines, property and energy, she went on to specialize in onshore energy. She was appointed head of Energy EMEA at Allianz Global Risks/Allianz Global Corporate & Commercial in 2002, and chief underwriting officer for Energy globally for Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty SE in 2006.
In 2007, she became head of Operations at Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty, first in London and then in Paris. From 2012 onwards, she moved into a global role as head of Governance, Global Operations. In 2015 she was promoted to global practice leader, Allianz Multinational, and in 2016 she also became the global head of Operations for Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty SE. In 2019, she left the Allianz group to join HDI Global SE as managing director for the UK and Ireland, and in 2022 she was made a member of the Executive Board as CUO responsible for property, engineering, marine and risk consulting.
McDonald is chair of the International Underwriting Association (IUA) and of iWIN, the insurance women’s inclusivity network. She is also vice president of the Insurance Institute of London.
Consilium Appoints Moore From Aon for Delegated Risk Solutions Team
Consilium, the global speciality re/insurance broking business of the Aventum Group, announced that Lucy Moore has joined the business as head of Technical and Operations within its Delegated Risk Solutions division.
Moore brings eight years’ delegated underwriting authority (DUA) experience, and joins the Delegated Risk Solutions team from Aon, where she held the role of DUA client account manager. Her previous experience includes roles at Convex and SCOR.
In her new position as head of Technical and Operations, Moore will play a lead role in supporting Consilium’s MGA clients, utilizing her expertise in complex placements, strong market relationships and service-focused approach to design and execute superior strategies for their delegated business.
Consilium reported a compound growth rate of 39% since 2019 and has seen a 132% increase in headcount in the last 18 months, with further recruitment planned for next year. The speciality broker is on target to reach US$1.4 billion GWP by 2026.
Aventum offers a range of specialist and niche solutions in all lines of property/casualty globally, through its broking arm Consilium and its MGA subsidiary, Rokstone. London-based Aventum is one of the world’s leading and fastest growing independent specialty insurance groups, trading more than US$1.5 billion GWP annually, with 17 offices globally.

Topics
Aon
