Consumers will be given greater rights to have goods such as washing machines and smartphones repaired under new rules agreed by the European Union and aimed at reducing waste from defective or broken products simply being dumped and replaced.
Along with the environmental benefits, the EU hopes the new directive, proposed last year and provisionally agreed late on Thursday, will also create jobs and reduce the bloc’s dependency on foreign raw materials.
Consumers will be able to choose between repair or replacement of defective products within the two-year legal guarantee period.
Companies will have to repair a product for free within that period, if cheaper than a replacement, and continue to offer affordable repairs for five to 10 years after a product’s sale even if it is outside of the guarantee.
Manufacturers and distributors will also have to inform consumers of their right to have products repaired and offer spare parts to independent repairers at reasonable prices.
The right to repair directive will apply to a range of products including mobile phones and tablets, washing machines, dishwashers, fridges, electronic displays, vacuum cleaners, data storage products and welding equipment. E-bike batteries are also due to be added.
The liability period would also be extended by 12 months for repaired goods, under the accord agreed by representatives of the European Parliament and EU governments late on Thursday.
EU countries will have to promote repairs, such as with consumer vouchers, reduced sales tax, information campaigns or repair courses, and a new online platform will allow consumers to find repair shops, sellers of refurbished goods or buyers of defective products.
Directives set out goals that EU countries must achieve through their own domestic laws. Once the right to repair directive enters force, likely to be this year, EU members will have 24 months to comply.

Topics
Europe
