This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Howden Broking and Chubb.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Howden Names Holz as CEO for Germany, Creating Howden Deutschland
Howden, the London-based international insurance broker, announced the appointment of Karl-Heinz Holz as new chief executive officer Howden Deutschland AG, effective Oct. 1, 2023. Serving as a key member of the leadership team in Germany for many years, he will take over his new role from Luigi Sturani, CEO Europe and interim CEO of Germany in recent months.
Holz has extensive expertise and experience of the German insurance sector, having been a member of the board of EUROASSEKURANZ, Howden’s largest brand in the German market, for the last five years and which he has led as CEO since 2021. Prior to this, he worked for Allianz Group in different roles.
The new Howden Deutschland entity is created from what is currently EUROASSEKURANZ, which will form the future core of Howden’s operating activities in Germany. Holz is joined by Kai Bockelmann, CEO of Himmelseher Sports Insurance; Marcel Braun, CEO of hendricks; and Axel Meyer, managing director of Howden Caninenberg. The new board of Howden Deutschland will form a freshly aligned leadership team to harness the collective power of the German businesses behind one Howden brand.
The creation of Howden Deutschland is a major milestone in the further integration of the firm in Germany, said Howden, noting that the reshaped business will significantly support Howden’s future ambitions for the region, foster cooperation across different product lines and strengthen the group’s visibility and profile in the market. The hendricks wholesale activity as well as Himmelseher Sports insurance complement the broker activities in Germany and will remain as independent companies and brands.
In his new role as CEO of Howden Deutschland, Holz will focus on further strengthening customer satisfaction and further integrating the comprehensive service and product offering of the Group in Germany, working closely together with Howden’s Group Executive Committee as well as the local management team.
Howden Broking, an independent provider of insurance brokerage, risk consulting and employee benefits advice, is headquartered in the UK and comprises owned businesses across Europe, Asia, Africa, Latin America, Australia, New Zealand and the Middle East. Howden’s reinsurance broking and advisory business, Howden Tiger, operates across Howden’s international network, and also in the US.
Established in 1994, today Howden employs more than 12,500 people worldwide. Together with network partners aligned to its specialty-led proposition, Howden operates in more than 100 territories.
Chubb Promotes Vaughan to Lead High Net Worth Personal Insurance Business in Europe
Chubb announced that Stephen Vaughan has been appointed head of its European Personal Risk Services (PRS), division, subject to regulatory approval. Currently, he serves as European Underwriting Centre manager for the business.
In his new role, which is effective June 1, Vaughan will have responsibility for the performance and development of the company’s high net worth personal lines business in the UK and Continental Europe.
Vaughan succeeds Annmarie Camp who is returning to the U.S. to take up a new role as business development leader for Chubb in North America.
Vaughan will continue to be based in London and will report to Mark Roberts, division president, United Kingdom, Ireland and South Africa.
He joined Chubb in 2004 and has since held a variety of underwriting and management roles of increasing seniority.

Topics
Europe
Chubb
Germany
