This edition of International People Moves details appointments at re/insurer MS Amlin and the broker Aon.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
MS Amlin Promotes Geddes as Head of Reinsurance
MS Amlin, the Lloyd’s re/insurer, announced the promotion of Sam Geddes as head of Reinsurance and deputy chief underwriting officer, subject to regulatory approval.
Geddes, formerly head of Property & Allied Lines for MS Amlin, will continue to report to CUO Martin Burke, and takes up his new role with immediate effect.
In addition to his new responsibilities leading MS Amlin’s extensive reinsurance teams who deliver around a third of MS Amlin’s premium income, he will also retain his existing responsibility as deputy CUO. As part of this new role, Geddes will also join the company’s Executive Committee.
Geddes, who joined MS Amlin in April 2021, brings more than 20 years of international market experience to the role, having spent much of his career in Hong Kong and New York. He joined the company from Everest Global Markets, where he was deputy active underwriter from 2016. Prior to this he held senior roles at Kiln Syndicate 510 and MSIG Syndicate 3210.
Geddes’ former role as Head of Property & Allied Lines will be filled internally by Simon Morgan, previously head of Property Delegated Authority. In his new position Morgan will have oversight of the company’s property division, which includes commercial property direct and facultative (D&F), property binders and auto.
With over two decades of experience in the property market, Morgan joined MS Amlin in September 2022 from Hiscox, where, during a 15-year tenure, latterly as divisional director for Property, he oversaw a portfolio of $500 million. Prior to this, Morgan was a property underwriter at Kiln.
Aon CFO Davies to Retire in 2025
Insurance broker Aon plc announced today that Christa Davies, executive vice president and chief financial officer (CFO) for Aon, has decided to retire in 2025 after more than 16 years at the firm.
Davies will continue to serve as Aon’s CFO into the third quarter, after certifying second quarter results, and then take on the role of senior adviser to the firm into 2025 to assist with the transition. Aon has activated its succession planning process to identify the firm’s next CFO.
Aon’s Board of Directors approved a two-year extension of CEO Greg Case’s employment agreement to April 1, 2028.
Davies joined Aon in 2007 and has served as CFO since 2008, overseeing the firm’s global finance and operations functions. Davies also currently serves on the Boards of Stripe and Workday.
“It is my honor to recognize Christa on behalf of our more than 50,000 colleagues around the world for her extraordinary contributions over the last 16 years at Aon,” said Case.
“As our CFO, Christa has driven an unwavering focus on top and bottom-line growth, disciplined capital allocation, and portfolio management, resulting in strong shareholder returns,” he added.
“Her leadership across many important transactions over the years and most recently the development of Aon Business Services as a catalyst for our business has both accelerated our success and positioned our firm to perform well into the future. As Christa begins to prepare for retirement, we are deeply grateful for her continued leadership throughout this transition and for the strong team she developed to advance our Aon United strategy,” Case said.
“I’m immensely grateful to Aon’s Board of Directors, Greg and our colleagues for the opportunity to serve this firm over the last 16 years. It’s been the experience of a lifetime,” said Davies. “With our winning Aon United strategy and 3×3 Plan in place, our very capable team has made it possible for me to consider taking a step back and begin my retirement. I look forward to supporting a smooth transition and will forever be a proud supporter of our firm.”

Topics
Reinsurance
Aon
Mississippi
