This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Verisk and Munich Re.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Verisk Promotes Rayner to President of Specialty Business Solutions
Verisk, the global data analytics provider, announced that Tim Rayner has been named president of the company’s Specialty Business Solutions group (formerly known as Sequel), effective immediately.
An insurance industry veteran of more than 20 years, Rayner most recently served as chief experience officer for Verisk Specialty Business Solutions. He played an active role in the acquisition and integration of the Whitespace and Ignite businesses. He joined Verisk in February 2018, after holding several leadership roles of increasing responsibility at Miller Insurance Services.
Rayner has a strong technology background, with over 15 years’ experience as a software developer, before moving to Miller where he headed IT, change and then group operations.
Looking forward, Rayner will play an instrumental part in Specialty Business Solutions’ global expansion, and brings a wealth of experience particularly in the coverholder space, having been the architect of London’s first real-time bordereau data exchange in 2007.
“Those of us who work closely with Tim have been impressed by his customer focus, leadership acumen and his vision for the future of insurance. Verisk Specialty Business Solutions occupies a coveted position in the marketplace, and Tim is the right leader to accelerate the business’ momentum,” said Mark Anquillare, president and COO, Verisk.
Munich Re Names 2 Senior Appointments in Singapore and SE Asia
Munich Re has appointed Tobias Frenz as chief executive officer of its Singapore Branch with effect from July 1, 2022.
Frenz succeeds James Park, who is leaving to pursue a new opportunity outside of Munich Re Group. Frenz takes on the role of CEO Singapore in addition to his existing responsibility as head of Digital Solutions, Life & Health, Asia Pacific & Middle East. In this expanded capacity, he will continue to be based in Singapore, reporting to Daniel Cossette, chief executive, Life & Health, Asia Pacific, Middle East & Africa.
Frenz has been with Munich Re for 20 years, having worked in Germany, the UAE, Malaysia and Singapore in various client management and senior leadership roles, including heading its Retakaful business. As head of Digital Solutions, he oversees the development the group’s life and health digital solutions, spanning AI and predictive analytics through to augmented automated underwriting and claims solutions. He holds a master’s degree in mathematics and economics from the University of Dortmund, a Certificate in Islamic Finance from CIMA and is a fellow of the Actuarial Society of Germany.
“Tobias brings more than 20 years of leadership experience and deep reinsurance expertise to this role, along with a strong understanding of the transforming insurance industry in Asia Pacific. As CEO Singapore, he will be responsible for overseeing Munich Re’s long-term growth ambition in this important market, as well as our commitment to being a great employer that is dedicated to developing our diverse talent here. We would like to thank James Park for successfully leading the branch over the past three years,” said Cossette.
Surbhi Goel, managing director and head, Property & Casualty, will take on responsibility for Munich Re’s Property & Casualty business in Singapore & Southeast Asia, reporting to Roland Eckl, chief executive – Japan, India, Korea, Singapore and Southeast Asia, with effect from July 1, 2022.
Goel joined Munich Re in Singapore in April this year from the group’s joint venture in India, HDFC ERGO, where she held a senior role responsible for reinsurance, property and casualty underwriting. She has 20 years of experience in reinsurance, business development, structuring and procurement, broking relationship management and underwriting of property/casualty lines of business.
She holds a Bachelor of Arts honours degree in Economics from Delhi University and a Post Graduate Diploma in Insurance and Risk Management from Birla Institute of Management Technology.
“Surbhi’s ability to form a deep understanding of client needs because of her extensive experience in primary insurance – both today and in the future – is a great asset to our leadership team in Southeast Asia. She will focus on positioning Munich Re as a partner to our clients for traditional risk transfer as well as co-creating bespoke solutions to new and emerging risks,” said Eckl.

Topics
Excess Surplus
Leadership
