DUAL Europe announced the launch of DUAL Cyber Active Protect, a new product that combines comprehensive cyber insurance with proactive cyber prevention services.
It also has launched a new entity – DUAL Cyber Prevention and Response (DUAL CPR) – which offers customized incident prevention and management solutions. This marks a significant milestone in DUAL’s mission to bridge the gap between the benefits of traditional cyber insurance and managed security services.
In partnership with two leading technology providers, Silverfort and Cynet, DUAL Europe said it has delivered an integrated solution that eliminates the need for traditional cyber risk questionnaires for standard SME business and reduces the number of underwriting questions for complex accounts.
The product will offer cutting-edge identity security, powered by Silverfort, as well as an All-in-One Cybersecurity Platform, powered by Cynet, which ensures robust cyber defense alongside insurance coverage, DUAL explained. (DUAL is the specialist underwriting arm of Howden, the London-based broker group.)
By offering advanced cybersecurity measures that reduce the likelihood and potential magnitude of losses, this solution enables businesses that previously lacked adequate protection to access comprehensive insurance coverage, DUAL said, explaining that for many SMEs, the cost and complexity of implementing effective cybersecurity measures have been prohibitive, with 75% of SMEs choosing not to buy cover, said DUAL, quoting research published by the World Economic Forum.
SMEs also often lack the resources to hire specialized cybersecurity teams or deploy sophisticated protective technologies, DUAL said.
“Our Cyber Active Protect solution provides insured clients with end-to-end risk management. By integrating insurance with advanced cybersecurity tools like Identity Threat Detection and Response, Identity Security Posture Management, non-human identity security, and Endpoint Detection and Response, we’re helping previously uninsurable companies become insurable,” commented Ali Khodabakhsh, head of Cyber at DUAL Europe and managing director of DUAL CPR.
“DUAL Cyber Active Protect isn’t just an insurance policy – it’s a holistic solution for cyber resilience. By removing barriers like lengthy questionnaires and offering proactive protection, we’re significantly enhancing risk quality and setting a new standard in the industry,” Khodabakhsh added. “This makes it an ideal solution for first-time buyers lacking sufficient security standards and enabling us to strongly drive market penetration by opening access to companies previously unable to obtain coverage.”
Cynet’s All-in-One Platform provides detection, prevention, and response capabilities, including endpoint protection, network analytics, and user behavior monitoring. It enables companies to:
“Cynet’s mission has always been to simplify cybersecurity for resource-constrained organizations” said Eyal Gruner, Cynet’s CEO & founder. “Thanks to this innovative approach to combining our technology with insurance, we are providing companies with a powerful and accessible solution for comprehensive protection.”
The Silverfort Identity Security Platform breaks down the silos of identity infrastructure to create a security layer that protects every identity, everywhere – in the cloud or on-prem, human or machine, and even legacy systems and resources that were never protected before. The result is always-on protection with continuous visibility, inline protection, and real-time response.
Its core technology intercepts illegitimate access requests – in real-time – not after an authentication has gone through, denying requests as they happen, or routing them to a conditional secondary MFA if desired.
“Silverfort is highly context-aware, and becomes a security layer across your Identity and access management infrastructure, detecting anomalous behavior, enforcing universal MFA, enabling conditional access – without complexity,” according to Leslie Bois, vice president Global Channels, Silverfort.
About DUAL
DUAL Group is one of the world’s largest international underwriting agencies with US$3.2 billion of GWP, operating with a global network of 11,000 broker partners, 70 carrier partners, and more than 1,800 people. DUAL Europe, established in 2022, now operates in 13 countries from 19 locations, with more than 350 people.

Topics
Cyber
Europe
New Markets
