This edition of International People Moves details appointments at broker Aon and HDI Global UK & Ireland.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Aon Names Reese as CFO, Succeeding Davies
Insurance broker Aon plc announced that Edmund Reese will be appointed executive vice president and chief financial officer of Aon, effective July 29, 2024.
Reese will join Aon on July 1 to succeed Christa Davies, who will certify second quarter 2024 results and then help with the transition of her responsibilities. She will become a senior adviser to the firm until her previously announced retirement next year.
As Aon’s CFO, Reese will be responsible for the firm’s finance function and capital allocation strategy.
Reese has more than 25 years of leadership experience at large public companies in the financial services, payments and technology sectors. He has served since 2020 as CFO of Broadridge Financial Solutions, a global fintech leader with a $24 billion market capitalization. Reese joined Broadridge from American Express, where he last served as senior vice president and CFO of its largest business unit, Global Consumer Services Group, and held several financial leadership positions, including head of Investor Relations and CFO of Global Business Services.
Prior to joining American Express in 2009, Reese served as CFO of the U.S. Advisory Group at Merrill Lynch and previously served as CFO of the Corporate Client Group and Stock Plan Services at Citigroup Smith Barney. He served on The Hartford’s Board of Directors, including as a member of the Audit Committee. He is a member of the Clemson University Foundation Board and President’s Advisory Board.
Reese earned a Bachelor of Science in accounting from Clemson University and a Master of Business Administration from The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania.
“Edmund is an accomplished executive with deep financial, M&A and investor experience and a proven track record of driving strong results,” said Greg Case, CEO of Aon. “As our next CFO, Edmund will further enhance our focus on top and bottom-line growth, disciplined capital allocation, and portfolio management to deliver positive outcomes for our clients, colleagues and shareholders.”
Ogden Named CEO of HDI Global UK & Ireland as Taylor Retires
HDI Global announced the appointment of Stephanie Ogden as the CEO HDI Global UK & Ireland, effective Sept. 1, 2024.
She succeeds Richard Taylor who has made the decision to retire at the end of the year, but will then move into a consultancy role for the business.
Ogden joined HDI in 2019, acting as managing director HDI Global UK and Ireland since 2022.
“It has been a true honour to serve and lead two of HDI’s largest branches during the last 17 years. I am immensely thankful to the talented people who have supported the business during this time, together we have built a fantastic business and one that we can all be proud of,” said Taylor.
“I am so pleased to be handing over the helm at a time when we are doing so well. I feel now is the right time for me to move on and make way for my successor and it is with great pleasure to be able to hand over to my colleague Stephanie.”
HDI Global SE is the Industrial Lines Division of the Talanx Group. Approximately 5,000 employees in this division generated insurance revenue (gross) of approximately 9.1 billion euros in the year 2023 (according to IFRS 17).

Topics
Aon
