Ventis, the London-based commercial and residential real estate managing general agent, has expanded into Ireland, continuing its mission to deliver client service and capacity to brokers in the underserved middle of the property market.
Ventis’ capacity will be distributed through a partnership with The Underwriting Exchange (TUE), the Dublin-based specialist broker, as an exclusive distributor in the Republic of Ireland. Irish brokers will be able to access Ventis capacity for mid-market real estate risk up to a total sum insured of €40 million ($44.7 million).
“Many brokers in the Irish property insurance market have been struggling to find insurers who can deliver quality service. In the nine months since launching Ventis, we have built a reputation in the UK as a firm that provides exactly that, and now we are bringing that proposition to the Irish market,” according to Gareth Roberts, CEO of Ventis, in a statement.
“We believe there is a marked opportunity, made possible through access to TUE’s existing broker networks, to deliver Ventis’ quality capacity and service to the Irish mid-market property sector,” Roberts added.
“Adding Ventis to TUE’s panel of underwriting partners will allow us to access the property market at a higher level than we have covered previously,” commented Stephen O’Connor, chairman of Specialist Risk Europe, which is the platform for the European operations of London-based broker and underwriter Specialist Risk Group.
“We are looking forward to working closely with the Ventis team as our exclusive partner in this area to deliver the best service for our broker partners and bolster our offering in the property sector,” O’Connor added.
Ventis Ireland will underwrite through its new presence in Dublin, where underwriter Suchitra Ramakrishnan is based. Ventis said it aims to underwrite a broad range of SME and mid-sized property risks, focusing on standard risks overlooked by larger insurers.
London-based broker Specialist Risk Europe Ltd. trades as The Underwriting Exchange (TUE), MX Underwriting Europe, and LIME is regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland.
Source: Ventis

Topics
Insurance Wholesale
