This edition of International People Moves details appointments at brokers Ardonagh Specialty (and its reinsurance unit Inver Re) and Aon.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Ardonagh Specialty Taps Gallagher Re’s Marsh as Deputy CEO of Bermuda, Inver Re’s Head of Retro
Ardonagh Specialty has appointed Jonathan Marsh as deputy CEO of Bermuda and global head of Retro at Inver Re.
Marsh will be running Ardonagh Specialty’s Bermudian business operations alongside CEO Chris Bonard and building out Inver Re’s retro capabilities. (Ardonagh announced the launch of the reinsurance broker, Inver Re, in June 2021.)
He joins from Gallagher Re having most recently held the position of chairman of its Bermuda office following the acquisition of Willis Re, where he’d previously spent 26 years in various roles including chairman, CEO and deputy CEO of the Global Specialty division.
“It’s great to have Jonathan on board to help us expand our retro team, drive new business – and continue to build a responsive and agile option for clients,” commented Bonard. “He’s well known and respected across the industry and brings with him a wealth of experience and expertise that will help us achieve our ambitious growth plans.”
Marsh’s appointment in Bermuda is subject to regulatory approval.
Aon Merges UK and EMEA Regions, Naming Page as CEO
Insurance broker Aon plc announced it is bringing together its UK and EMEA regions, appointing Julie Page as CEO of the EMEA region, which now includes the UK, effective Nov. 15.
Page has held the position of CEO of Aon UK since 2018.
Page started her career with Aon, before moving to Marsh where she was chief executive officer of the Commercial and Consumer division. She rejoined Aon in early 2016 to lead the National ARS (Aon Risk Solutions) business across 16 offices in the UK.
She was named CEO of Aon Risk Solutions UK in April 2017, a role that she held along with the role of CEO of Aon UK.
“As we continue to go further, faster with our 3×3 Plan to accelerate our Aon United strategy, operating as one united region will simplify our organizational structure to be even more responsive to client need and create further opportunities for our colleagues,” said Eric Andersen, president of Aon, in a statement.
“With more than 30 years of experience spanning our Risk Capital and Human Capital capabilities, Julie is well positioned to partner with leaders in the region to deliver on our 3×3 Plan and further develop leading colleague and client experiences.”
With this transition, current EMEA CEO Eduardo Dávila will be departing the firm at the end of 2023 to pursue the next chapter of his career.
“We are very grateful to Eduardo for his contributions to Aon and for leading and inspiring colleagues to deliver outstanding results. During his distinguished tenure, Eduardo served as a tireless champion of our firm across Iberia and EMEA and he leaves the region in a position of strength, to capitalize on growth opportunities and scale Aon United solutions,” Andersen added.

Topics
Aon
A.J. Gallagher
