The Jensten Group, the UK independent insurance broking group, has embarked upon a transformation program across the business which will see it simplify its corporate structure, systems, and brands.
The restructure will see the business rationalize over a period of time into five key trading divisions with the introduction of four new brands over the next few months: Jensten Insurance Brokers, Jensten London Markets, Jensten Underwriting and Jensten Brokers Europe, and the retention of the Coversure brand for franchise activities.
The first to go live is Jensten Insurance Brokers, launched today (April 4), which will sit alongside the Coversure Franchise business, making up Jensten’s retail operations. The wholesale division brand changes will follow later in 2022.
The move sees Tasker Insurance Brokers, which was acquired by Jensten in September 2021, rebranded as Jensten Insurance Brokers. On May 23, two wholly owned Coversure branches (Huntingdon and Ilkeston) will be brought into Jensten Insurance Brokers, followed by HTC Associates in September – all eventually trading under the Jensten brand.
While operating in the newly named Jensten Insurance Brokers trading division, Advance Insurance Agencies, Jensten’s niche personal lines broking business in the South West, and Packetts, Jensten’s regional office in Yorkshire, will retain their current brands.
Other sub-brands, including Travel Risk Professionals, Enhance Insurance Services and Numark Insurance Services will also retain their separate branding, recognizing their value in the specific niches and markets in which they operate.
The move will see Robin Thomson, former managing director of Tasker Insurance Brokers becoming managing director of the larger Jensten Insurance Brokers. Matt Jones will continue to lead Advance, Marshall Sugden will lead Packetts and Rob Palmer the Coversure franchise business — all reporting to Robert Organ, managing director Retail, Jensten Group.
“The Jensten Group is committed to expansion through a mixture of organic growth and acquisition and presently controls in excess of £320 million gross written premium. Last year, we completed the acquisitions of Tasker Insurance Group, Advance and Packetts as part of our ‘Buy and Build’ strategy. The investment in the Jensten brand, whilst retaining other meaningful brands within the business, reflects our determination to focus on what is valued by our clients,” commented Alistair Hardie, group CEO, of London-based Jensten Group.
Source: Jensten Group

Topics
Agencies
