This edition of International People Moves details appointments at AXA XL and Aon.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
AXA XL Names Ensurance’s Burgess as Sr. U/W, Construction, UK & Lloyd’s
AXA XL Insurance announced it has appointed Adrian Burgess as senior underwriter, Construction, UK & Lloyd’s, effective immediately.
In his new role, Burgess will be responsible for developing and managing underwriting strategies for both renewal and new business within AXA XL’s Construction book of business in the UK. He will also work closely with AXA XL’s team of risk engineers in supporting clients as they navigate the challenges and opportunities currently in the market.
Burgess began his career at Eagle Star/Zurich Insurance in 1988, remaining with the company for 10 years, when he progressed into a variety of underwriting positions. Between and 1999 and 2021, he spent time at the likes of Allianz Cornhill, Royal & Sun Alliance and MS Amlin, before joining Ensurance UK, where he most recently held the position of senior underwriter.
“There’s huge opportunity for the UK construction sector as it recovers from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and advances towards a more sustainable future. But while there’s an increase in the volume of building projects, the industry faces challenges from supply chain issues and high prices of building materials,” commented Al Baker, head of Construction, UK & Lloyd’s, at AXA XL.
“Having the right talent in place is key as we look to support our clients in addressing these challenges and profitably grow our UK Construction business.”
Aon Strengthens M&A and Transaction Solutions With 3 Hires
Insurance broker Aon plc has strengthened its M&A and Transaction Solutions team in the UK with the appointment of Sam Bridges, Tanya Hickson, and Guy Ruddy.
Sam Bridges joins Aon’s Corporate M&A Coverage team as director and brings more than 20 years of experience as an investment banking professional at J. P. Morgan.
Tanya Hickson moves from Aon’s Corporate team to Aon’s Manchester M&A Transaction Advisory Risk and Insurance team, working with Antoinette Swift on diligence and private equity backed portfolio business.
Guy Ruddy joins the Transaction Solutions team, based outside of London, as director, from Squire Patton Boggs in Leeds, having spent more than four years as a corporate M&A lawyer with a private equity focus.
Adrian Lamasz, head of UK Regions at Aon’s M&A and Transaction Solutions, commented: “These appointments reflect Aon’s continued progress in the region and the increasing client demand for our services. In 2021, the team worked on more than 100 M&A situations in the UK, and we are well-positioned for further growth.”

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Excess Surplus
Lloyd's
Aon
Construction
AXA XL
