This edition of International People Moves details appointments at the insurance broker Miller and the insurer Markel.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Miller Promotes Nagle to Head of Miller Europe, Succeeding Holloway
Miller, the London-based independent specialist re/insurance broker, announced the appointment of Tim Nagle as head of Miller Europe.
Nagle has been with Miller since 2020 and will also continue in his current role as head of Sports & Entertainment. Nagle’s additional responsibilities as head of Miller Europe will build on his relationships with Miller’s European partners and experience working across Miller’s five European locations.
Nagle succeeds Oscar Holloway, who has left the role to pursue other opportunities.
Europe has formed an important part of Miller’s international growth strategy since its return to independence, including the acquisitions of Henner Sports (now Miller Sports & Entertainment), 4809 Brokers and Bruzon alongside strong organic growth.
“We’re delighted that Tim has agreed to take up the role of head of Europe, in addition to his existing leadership of our Sports & Entertainment team,” commented James Hands, CEO of Miller. “Tim has played a critical role in helping drive the growth we are seeing today as a practitioner-leader of one of our core franchises. His understanding of Miller’s approach and connectivity in Europe makes this promotion a natural one.”
Markel Taps AIG’s Eastwood as Senior U/W Cyber
Markel, the insurance operations within Markel Group Inc., announced the appointment of Jack Eastwood as senior underwriter, Cyber, with immediate effect.
Eastwood takes up his position as a senior member of Markel’s Cyber & Technology team, where he’ll be responsible for working closely alongside the cyber leadership colleagues to develop and drive the organization’s cyber underwriting strategy in London. He’ll play an important role as a senior underwriting leader, involved in all aspects of the Markel Cyber & Technology portfolio.
Previously, Eastwood spent more than 13 years at AIG, where he started out as a financial lines underwriter specializing in professional liability and cyber risk before progressing to the role of team leader – Cyber & Technology at the firm. Prior to this position, he was employed as a broker at Griffiths & Armour for more than four years.
Eastwood will be based at Markel’s London office and report directly to Dan Fox, head of Cyber at Markel.

Topics
Cyber
Europe
AIG
