Howden, the global insurance group, announces today that it will unify its structure under a single global executive, with insurance broking, reinsurance broking and underwriting reporting directly to CEO David Howden.
The restructure will be effective Oct. 1, 2023 and the holding company and broking operations will rebrand under the Howden name and a single visual identity in October 2023.
Insurance Broking
The UK&I broking operations will be chaired by Barnaby Rugge-Price, currently deputy chair, Howden Broking Group. He will be supported by Deputy Chairs Paul Redgate, currently CEO Global Specialty, and Mark Wood, currently head of Global Practices.
Sarah Hughes, currently CEO UK Specialty, will lead Howden Specialty, which will bring together the current UK Specialty, Global Specialty and Howden CAP businesses.
Carl Shuker will lead the UK&I retail broking operations.
Andy Bragoli, currently executive chair of Global Specialty will become global head of Placement.
Luigi Sturani will continue to lead the broking operations in Europe, supported by Salvador Marin as CEO Northern Europe and Danny Sever as chairman. Howden’s operations in Turkey will become part of its Europe region.
Asia Pacific, with Goh Chye Huat and Matt Bacon leading Asia and Pacific, respectively, will be chaired by Mark Wood.
India, Middle East & Africa and LatAm will be led by Sonia Caamaño, currently CEO International Growth Markets, and chaired by Paul Redgate, with Richard Mockett as CEO MEA, and Pablo Bores as CEO Latam.
Reinsurance Broking
Rob Bredahl leads Howden Tiger as CEO, supported by Rod Fox as executive chairman, Tim Ronda as president, and Elliot Richardson as vice chair.
DUAL
Richard Clapham, CEO, and Kieran Sweeney, executive chairman, continue to lead DUAL.
Olaf Jonda, Damien Coates and John Johnson continue to lead Europe, Asia Pacific and the US, respectively.
José Manuel González, CEO Howden Broking Group, will retire from executive positions and remain with the group as special adviser, CEO Office, as well as becoming chair of Howden Iberia, which he founded.
González took over as CEO of the broking group in 2018. Under his leadership, by attracting and aligning a formidable team the business has grown from £500 million to £2 billion revenue in the five-year period.
“As I said last year when we announced that we had reached agreement to acquire TigerRisk Partners, we have completed the architecture of the group,” according to David Howden, in a statement.
“As we begin the next phase of our growth, it is critical that we have the right structure in place so that we are aligned as one to harness our collective power, protect our culture, and to ensure we face our clients and markets as one business. We will do this with our retail, specialty, reinsurance and underwriting leaders working together as a single management team,” he added.
“Our operating model and infrastructure are key to our sustainable growth and we will continue to invest significantly in our support services functions to allow our experts to get on with what they do best – serving our clients.”
About Howden
Founded in 1994, Howden operates in 50 countries across Europe, Africa, Asia, the Middle East, Latin America, the USA, Australia and New Zealand, employing 14,500 people and handling $30bn of premium on behalf of clients.
Source: Howden