This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Aon’s Reinsurance Solutions Bermuda unit and Acrisure Re in London.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Aon Promotes Romeo to CEO of Bermuda Reinsurance Operations
Insurance broker Aon plc announced the appointment of Roman Romeo as chief executive officer of its Reinsurance Solutions Bermuda unit, effective April 1.
Tony Fox, CEO and chairman of Reinsurance Solutions Bermuda, will remain as chairman.
Based in Bermuda and reporting to Fox, Romeo will lead Aon’s Bermuda reinsurance operations while continuing to create a collaborative environment that draws on the expertise of the firm’s global network.
He joined Aon in 2022 and brings more than 23 years of industry experience to his new role, including six years at re/insurer AXIS Capital – where he served as president, head of Property of AXIS Specialty Ltd. – and eight years at reinsurer PartnerRe, where he held the position of senior underwriter, Property Catastrophe.
Acrisure Re Taps Hodges From Howden Tiger as EVP
Acrisure Re, the re/insurance division of fintech firm Acrisure, announced the appointment of Joel Hodges as executive vice president, effective March 1. He is based in London with a global role.
Hodges brings more than 25 years of re/insurance industry experience to Acrisure Re along with a broad range of expertise encompassing actuarial, underwriting, reinsurance buying, broking and portfolio management. As part of the Acrisure Re senior broking team, Hodges has a key leadership role in developing thoughtful client reinsurance treaty solutions in a fast evolving re/insurance world.
Hodges joins from Howden Tiger where he was the international head of Analytics and responsible for overseeing data analytics across all product lines and leading initiatives to improve the performance of the business. Prior to Howden Tiger, Hodges held several senior roles at Liberty Mutual, most recently as head of portfolio management, Global Risk Solutions.
“Joel’s proven track record in building re/insurance solutions, and expertise in data analytics to guide strategic decision-making, will be vital as we continue our successful global growth trajectory,” commented Simon Hedley, Acrisure Re Global CEO. “In addition, he will further enhance our analytical capabilities globally, ensuring our continued competitiveness at the highest level and our ability to design and execute transactions that support our clients’ strategic objectives. I’m happy to welcome Joel to the team.”
Acrisure Re is a reinsurance broking and advisory firm that operates in Bermuda, Florida, Illinois, Italy, London, Minnesota, New York, North Carolina, Seattle, Toronto and Zurich.

Topics
Reinsurance
Aon
