Munich Reinsurance America Inc. announced the retirement of Anthony J. Kuczinski as chief executive officer of Munich Re US P&C Companies and of Munich Re US Holding Inc., effective Dec. 31, 2022, with an agreed change in his role to strategic advisor, effective Jan. 1, 2023, to ensure a smooth transition in 2023.
Since 2008, Kuczinski has been responsible for Munich Re US P&C Companies’ property and casualty reinsurance and specialty insurance businesses in the United States, which includes Munich Reinsurance America, Inc., Hartford Steam Boiler Group, Inc., American Modern Insurance Group, Inc., and Munich Re Specialty Insurance.
During his 33-year tenure at Munich Re, Kuczinski has held a variety of key leadership positions, including president of the Specialty Markets division of Munich Reinsurance America and president of American Alternative Insurance Corp. and The Princeton Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Co. He also served as project leader of Munich Re’s US Strategy Project, where he was an architect of the group’s strategy for long-term profitable growth in the United States.
“For more than three decades, Tony’s passion for our business and commitment to our clients and partners have been instrumental in the success of not only our US operations, but also our global organization,” said Stefan Golling, member of the Munich Re Board of Management. “Throughout his career, Tony has led with empathy and integrity, and we thank him for his countless contributions to Munich Re.”
There will be no direct successor to Kuczinski. Instead, his retirement will be accompanied by an organizational restructuring. Significant parts of Kuczinski’s area of responsibility will be transferred to a new Board of Management division: Global Specialty Insurance (GSI).
GSI will be headed by Michael Kerner, currently chief executive officer of Munich Re Specialty Insurance in North America, who was newly appointed to Munich Re’s Board of Management by the Supervisory Board, effective Jan. 1, 2023. Munich Reinsurance America, led by its CEO and President Marcus Winter, will report as a unit to Stefan Golling, responsible for Global Clients and North America in Munich Re’s Board of Management.
Source: Munich Reinsurance America

Topics
USA
Property Casualty
