This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Allianz Commercial, Banyan Risk and Miller.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Allianz Commercial Taps AIG’s Sandric as Leader Asia Region
Allianz Commercial announced that Christian Sandric has been named commercial managing director Asia in Singapore, with effect from Sept. 1, 2023, subject to regulatory approval.
Mark Mitchell, the current regional managing director for Asia for Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty SE (AGCS), will continue in his role until Sandric joins, before stepping down to pursue opportunities outside Allianz Group.
Sandric is currently president and CEO of AIG Singapore, and regional manager for Indonesia, the Philippines and Vietnam with overall management responsibility for AIG’s General Insurance business in those territories. In his 24-year career with AIG, he held a series of leadership positions with increasing responsibility across the United States, Australia, Europe and Asia.
Prior to moving to Singapore, he spent nine years working with AIG Japan in addition to other Asia based roles in both Hong Kong and Shanghai. Sandric holds a Bachelor of Science in Environmental Conservation and International Affairs from the University of New Hampshire.
Sandric’s appointment comes after the confirmation of similar leadership roles for other key commercial markets globally such as Australia, France, Germany, the UK, and in Iberia and Latin America. In each region, the appointed single commercial managing director represents the integrated Allianz Commercial business and brings Allianz’s full set of solutions for mid-sized companies, large corporations and specialty clients to the market, leading our trading activities, and simplifying and enhancing the experience of clients and distribution partners, Allianz explained.
“I am pleased to welcome Christian to Allianz Commercial and I know that his excellent knowledge and network across all major Asian markets will help us drive our business forward in this important growth region,” commented Joachim Mueller, who leads Allianz Commercial as part of his role as CEO of AGCS.
“I particularly want to thank Mark Mitchell for his very strong contribution to AGCS’s development in Asia Pacific. He and his team have built up this business with great professionalism, establishing the foundations on which Allianz Commercial can grow profitably in Asia. On behalf of all at AGCS, I wish him all the best for the future.”
Allianz announced on March 10, 2023 that it will serve the global commercial insurance segment as one go-to-market business, using the new trading name of Allianz Commercial, combining its AGCS business serving large corporate and specialty clients together with the insurance businesses of Allianz’s operating entities serving mid-sized country-based accounts. Mueller will lead Allianz Commercial as part of his responsibilities as CEO of AGCS SE.
Banyan Risk Appoints Munro as CUO
Banyan Risk Ltd., the specialty managing general agent (MGA), has announced the appointment of Ben Munro to the newly created role of chief underwriting officer.
Munro will be responsible for overseeing the execution and achievement of Banyan Risk’s plans for profitable growth globally, as well as using his depth of experience in the Bermuda market and insurtech industry to enhance Banyan’s data-driven models.
In an extensive insurance career spanning three decades, Munro has held several senior underwriting leadership positions at AIG, Chubb and Markel, in both Canada and Bermuda. In 2018 Munro co-founded, and was chief executive officer of Briza, a software firm focused on enabling digital connections between insurers, distributors and customers.
“Ben’s extensive understanding of the global insurance market combined with his market-leading expertise and experience of D&O, financial institutions and cyber business lines will be central to our continued profitable growth,” commented Tim Usher-Jones, co-founder and CEO of Banyan Risk. “And with half a decade spent building a successful insurtech company, we will continue to build out a best-in-class data and technology offering. He will greatly enhance our client and broker experience, and strengthen our global team.”
Banyan Risk launched in 2021 and is regulated by the Bermuda Monetary Authority. The MGA creates bespoke directors and officers (D&O) insurance risk solutions for life sciences, global initial public offerings (IPOs), the technology sector, and special purpose acquisition companies (SPACs).
Miller Strengthens Entertainment Team With Senior Hire
Miller, the London-based independent specialist re/insurance broker, announced the appointment of Juan Hernandez as an account executive in its Sports and Entertainment team. Hernandez will report into Susana Bramwell, head of Media, Film & TV, and will be based in London.
Hernandez brings over 25 years of Insurance experience, joining from specialist broker Media Insurance, where he spent the past 12 years predominantly focused on film and TV production. Prior to this, Juan also spent time at Aon and Abbeygate Insurance Brokers. At Miller, Juan will work as part of the Media, TV and Film offering within Miller’s Sports and Entertainment team.
His appointment reflects Miller’s commitment to the growth of its Sports & Entertainment proposition, having last year hired Susana Bramwell to lead Miller’s expansion into Media, TV and Film, alongside senior industry practitioners Ross Beard and Dan Blanchard as account executives.

Topics
Commercial Lines
New Markets
Leadership
Allianz
AIG
