This edition of International People Moves details appointments at brokers Lockton and McGill and Partners as well as the Bermuda MGA Arcadian Risk Capital.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Lockton Announces New International Leadership Structure
Lockton, the Kansas City, Mo.-based insurance broker, announced a new international leadership structure designed to support the company’s continued growth.
Effective May 1, 2022, EJ Hentenaar, Lockton’s current head of Global Financial Risks, will assume the role of CEO, Europe.
As part of the broker’s planned succession, Neil Nimmo, currently CEO of Lockton International, will become the chairman of Lockton International, reporting to Peter Clune. In addition to his overall responsibilities for Lockton International, Nimmo will focus on the growth and success of Lockton’s international regions – Asia, Australia, Europe, LatAm and MENA – supporting them in taking care of their clients and their people.
Chris Brown, current CEO Europe, is moving to a newly created role of president of Lockton International, reporting to Ron Lockton, chairman. In this new role, he will build on the work he has done to develop the Lockton Global Partners, develop Lockton’s international growth strategy and focus on the globalization of Lockton’s key industry practices.
“We are excited for EJ to serve as the CEO of Europe,” said Ron Lockton. “He is a proven leader, and he is respected by our clients, the markets and our people. EJ will continue to build on Lockton’s success in Europe.”
“These changes are a testament to the incredible work of the entire Lockton International team and the growth they have created for Lockton,” said Peter Clune, Lockton CEO. “We are evolving our leadership team to ensure our long-term focus and commitment to our Associates and clients.”
MGA Arcadian Promotes Barna to Head of Transactional Liability Underwriting
Bermuda-based MGA Arcadian Risk Capital announced the promotion of Nicole Barna to executive vice president, head of Transactional Liability Underwriting. In addition, she continues in her role as Arcadian’s underwriting counsel.
Barna joined Arcadian shortly after its inception in January 2021 as a senior vice president with responsibility for the development of Arcadian’s Transactional Liability book, now one of its largest product sectors.
“I am delighted to confirm Nicole’s promotion, subject to Bermuda Immigration approval. She has been a consistently outstanding performer at Arcadian since its inception, developing a well-structured and diversified account in addition to offering underwriting counsel to our various teams. This promotion is well deserved and reflective of her outstanding contribution at Arcadian,” commented John Boylan, Arcadian CEO.
Capacity for Arcadian is provided by SiriusPoint. The company underwrites general liability, professional liability and property insurance.
McGill and Partners Hires DARAG’s Hill for Structured Solutions Team
McGill and Partners, the London-based boutique re/insurance broker, has further expanded its Structured Solutions team with a new partner, Andy Hill.
Hill joins from DARAG Group, where he held the role of group chief operating officer during a period of international expansion. Previously, he was head of Restructuring in North America at Zurich Insurance Co., where he worked for nearly seven years.
With a background in insurance M&A and corporate restructuring, Hill has spent over a decade executing alternative risk transactions for multiple lines of business in North America, UK, Continental Europe and Bermuda.
Hill’s key focus in his role at McGill and Partners will be on retrospective solutions, helping clients to achieve capital and operational relief, as well as economic and legal finality in their re/insurance carriers and captives through the reinsurance of P/C legacy (run-off) portfolios.
Hill will help McGill’s Structured Solutions team expand into the market of alternative and retrospective risk transfer, the company said.
Launched in May 2019, McGill and Partners has significant backing from funds affiliated with Warburg Pincus, a leading global private equity firm. McGill and Partners has offices in London, New York, Miami, Bermuda and Dublin.

Topics
Liability
Leadership
Insurance Wholesale
