This edition of Internation People Moves details appointments at Guy Carpenter and Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Former Pool Re CEO Enoizi Named Carpenter’s Head of Public Sector
Guy Carpenter, the reinsurance business of Marsh McLennan, announced the appointment of Julian Enoizi as global head of Public Sector, effective April 11, 2022.
In this newly created role, Enoizi will lead Guy Carpenter’s Public Sector practice, where he will be responsible for driving its growth strategy. He will work with the global team to identify opportunities to address systemic risks, such as cyber and climate change and develop innovative solutions that facilitate a closer working relationship between public and private entities.
Working with Marsh McLennan’s other businesses, including Marsh, Oliver Wyman and Mercer, he will continue building on the company’s position as the market leader in the sector. Mr. Enoizi will be based in London and report to David Priebe, Chairman of Guy Carpenter.
Enoizi has been in the industry over 25 years leading international insurance operations in Continental European, London and Lloyd’s markets. Most recently, he was CEO of Pool Re, the UK government-backed terrorism reinsurer that operates as a public-private partnership, presiding over significant advancements to the organization and its strategic direction, including the renewal of its unlimited government guarantee.
During this time, Enoizi also played a central role in discussions around how the UK might better manage the risks that sit on the government’s balance sheet. These conversations culminated in the joint development of a landmark initiative “Resilience UK,” aimed at encouraging industry and government collaboration to tackle systemic risks and protection gaps beyond terrorism.
Earlier in his career, Enoizi held leadership roles including managing director of ProSight Specialty Underwriters, president and CEO of Argo Managing Agency, and president and CEO of CNA Europe Holdings.
AGCS Hires BHSI’s Maxwell as Global Head of Financial Lines
Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty SE (AGCS), the corporate insurance carrier of Allianz Group, announces the appointment of Vanessa Maxwell as new global head of Financial Lines. In this role she will succeed – and also subsequently report to – Shanil Williams who was promoted in December 2021 to join the AGCS SE board of management in January 2022 as chief underwriting officer Corporate.
Williams was global head of Financial Lines at AGCS from 2019 to the end of 2021 and will continue to oversee this line of business on an interim basis until Maxwell joins AGCS at the latest in June 2022. Both will be based in AGCS’s London office.
Financial Lines is the largest line of business of AGCS, contributing approximately one fifth to the company’s global premium volume of €9.5 billion in 2021 and is targeting new business opportunities across all regions with products such as directors & officers (D&O), professional liability and cyber insurance.
Maxwell currently oversees the UK franchise of Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI) as a country manager. Before assuming this role, she gathered extensive experience in financial lines underwriting in increasingly senior roles, most recently as head of Executive and Professional Lines UK at Berkshire Hathaway.
Before joining Berkshire Hathaway in 2017 she held various managerial roles in financial lines and professional liability underwriting at AIG (including subsidiaries) in London and New York. She started her insurance career in 2002 at AIG in New York after graduating from the Alfred Lerner College of Business & Economics at University of Delaware, United States.