Kingfisher Insurance Services Ltd., the London-based specialist insurance broker, has acquired MIS Motorsport’s commercial business in the UK and Ireland.
Financial details of the transaction were not disclosed.
As part of the acquisition, a new entity will be created called MIS Commercial, which will focus on commercial insurance products for professional and amateur motorsports teams and businesses.
Guiseley, Leeds-based MIS Motorsport Ltd. will remain under current ownership and stay focused on its core expertise as a provider of motorsport on-track insurance, driving continued growth in this area.
The existing team at MIS Commercial will continue operations from Leeds, ensuring seamless service for clients.
The acquisition aligns with Kingfisher’s strategy of expanding its market presence through organic growth and strategic acquisitions. It follows the acquisition of Reis Motorsports Insurance last year and builds on their commitment to supporting businesses operating in the motorsports sector.
“We are excited to welcome the MIS Commercial clients and team to the Kingfisher family,” commented James Stuart, managing director of Kingfisher Insurance Services Ltd. “MIS has built a strong commercial book, and this acquisition accelerates our strategy of growing our specialisms, reaffirming our commitment to the motorsports industry.”
“The acquisition of MIS Commercial marks another significant milestone in Kingfisher’s strategic expansion within the motorsport insurance market, building upon last year’s acquisition of Reis. This solidifies our position as a leading provider of specialist insurance solutions for the motorsport industry,” according to Jacquie Boast, CEO of NSM UK, Kingfisher’s parent company.
“By integrating the MIS Commercial team and business into Kingfisher, we aim to accelerate growth and profitability in this sector while delivering an even higher level of service to our commercial motorsport clients,” Boast added.
About Kingfisher Insurance
With a number of established and respected brands, Kingfisher provides a wide range of insurance products, including motor trade, private client, classic cars and bikes, specialist commercial, motorsport and non-standard home. Kingfisher Insurance is part of NSM Insurance Group, a global speciality insurance provider established for over 32 years. The company has built more than $1.5 billion in premium across 25-plus speciality insurance programs and brands in the US and UK.
Source: Kingfisher Insurance Services

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
Commercial Lines
