Agile Underwriting Services, the Sydney, Australia-based insurtech, managing general agent, and Lloyd’s coverholder, has launched a unit in New Zealand, which Agile described as the first of its kind for a Lloyd’s syndicate.
The establishment of Agile Insurance Group NZ enhances Agile’s ability to service New Zealand business in its general aviation, accident and health, casualty and professional lines, the company said.
This venture marks a further strategic milestone for Agile, an Australian insurance group established in 2015. Earlier this year, Agile launched a Lloyd’s syndicate – Agile Underwriting Services Syndicate AUS 2427 — established under the “syndicate-in-a-box” (SIAB) framework. It is managed by Asta, a third-party managing agent at Lloyd’s.
“The establishment of our presence in New Zealand is a significant advance in the development of Agile’s capability and market offering,” according to Robin Barham, CEO of Agile, in a statement. “The strength of our Pacific presence combined with our innovative IT platforms demonstrate a continuation of our drive to expand our offerings and support our New Zealand customers.”
The launch of a New Zealand entity solidifies Agile’s position at the forefront of Lloyd’s business in the Pacific region and paves the way for other geographic expansion, the company said.
“We see the New Zealand market as a critical element in our development, and this ground-breaking initiative offers brokers new capacity options and access to Agile’s adaptive solutions that reflect the region’s unique demands,” commented Mark Hunt, the syndicate’s active underwriter, who has four decades of industry expertise.
Source: Agile Underwriting Services

Topics
Excess Surplus
Lloyd's
Australia
