Arcadian Risk Capital Ltd., a Bermuda-based managing general agent (MGA) and part of the “Class of 2020” announced that it has received regulatory approvals for new London and Dublin companies.
Arcadian UK standalone authorization was approved by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on Aug. 12, 2022 and Arcadian Ireland’s authorization was granted by the Central Bank of Ireland (CBI) on Aug. 9, 2022.
This announcement marks the next step in the evolution of Arcadian which received approval from the Bermuda Monetary Authority in October 2020 and opened an office on the island on Jan. 1, 2021.
Led by John Boylan, a well-known industry executive with a 30-year track record in the global insurance market, the firm reported a gross written premium (GWP) of $225 million for 2021 following a year of rapid growth.
“We are pleased to announce the regulatory approvals for our London and Dublin companies. It marks the next stage in our strategic journey and strengthens our value proposition as a global company offering superior service in the selection and structuring of risk management insurance products,” commented CEO Boylan.
About Arcadian Risk Capital Ltd
Arcadian writes excess general liability, primary and excess professional liability, and excess property direct and facultative (D&F) insurance. Founded in 2020, the company has offices in Bermuda, London and Dublin and is Regulated to conduct business in each jurisdiction.
Source: Arcadian Risk Capital

Topics
Legislation
Insurance Wholesale
London
