This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Willis Towers Watson (WTW), MGA Dual, and Liberty Global Transaction Solutions.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
WTW Asia Hires Aon’s Tilney, Promotes Nassaouati for Construction, Energy
Insurance broker WTW announced two leadership appointments to its Natural Resources and Construction lines of business within the Asia Corporate Risk & Broking business, effective January 2023.
Nicki Tilney will join WTW as head of Construction, Power & Renewables in Asia. This is a new role created to better align the key needs within the construction, power and renewable energy sectors. Tilney will have responsibility for leading the construction, power and renewable strategies across Asia to deliver seamless service to clients throughout the life of their projects. Tilney joins from Aon where she is the head of Construction, Power & Infrastructure in Asia.
George Nassaouati, who currently heads WTW’s Natural Resources in Asia, will be appointed as head of Energy Asia. He will lead the development and management of the upstream and downstream energy portfolio.
With these changes, both Tilney and Nassaouati will co-head the Natural Resources business in Asia.
DUAL Europe Names Allianz’s Wijchman as Commercial Director
DUAL, the London-based MGA subsidiary of Howden, announced that Floris Wijchman has joined DUAL as Commercial Director, DUAL Europe, as the latest appointment in the region’s leadership team.
Wijchman will report to Olaf Jonda, CEO, DUAL Europe.
Wijchman has over 25 years’ industry experience and was previously at Allianz for 10 years, most recently as managing director Global MidCorp. Wijchman has also held various roles at Swiss Re including Head of CEO Office. He started his career at Aon Risk Solutions.
Launched in Spain in 1998, DUAL now operates from 14 European locations in 10 countries. employing just over 200 people. It is one of the largest international coverholders at Lloyd’s.
Liberty Global Transaction Solutions Promotes Lee to APAC Regional Mgr.
Liberty Global Transaction Solutions announced the appointment of Geoffrey Lee as the Liberty GTS Regional Manager, Asia Pacific (APAC), continuing to report to William Lewis, head of Asia Pacific for Liberty GTS.
Lee is a qualified solicitor specializing in corporate M&A, having previously established his legal career with DLA Piper in Sydney and in London. Lee has been with the Liberty GTS team since 2014. He was initially based in Sydney before being seconded to Hong Kong in 2016 to expand Liberty GTS’ business in North Asia. Following his secondment, Lee returned to Australia in 2019 to manage the Australia and New Zealand region. During this period he has also continued to underwrite a broad portfolio of M&A risks, with a focus on China and Hong Kong.
Lee will now take on a broader role, managing the Asia Pacific region for Liberty GTS.
Specializing in M&A insurance, Liberty GTS is a unit of Liberty Mutual Insurance. With more than 80 specialists, Liberty GTS helps facilitate more than 800 M&A deals a year on average. GTS offers specialized products and services to help facilitate M&A transactions for buyers and sellers, including representations & warranties (R&W) insurance, warranty & indemnity (W&I) insurance, tax liability insurance, and one-off policies created for individual contingent risks.

Topics
Commercial Lines
Europe
Aon
Allianz
Willis Towers Watson
