Rokstone, the international speciality re/insurance MGA that is part of the Aventum Group, has announced the launch of a D&O and PI combined facility for financial institutions in the UK, Europe and the Caribbean, backed by a $10 million Lloyd’s binder.
Rokstone said it spotted a gap in the market for a secure Lloyd’s-backed, expertise-led offering in the FI space. With this facility, it is targeting all shapes and sizes of financial institutions including private equity houses, hedge funds, investment managers and credit & savings institutions.
“Entering the FI space was the logical next step for us. We already have extensive PI and D&O experience and enviable backing from our capacity partners,” commented Jimmy Heaton, head of D&O at Rokstone.
“We give brokers a reliable and consistent service and for a while many have been expressing a desire for us to expand our offering and bring the same holistic approach for FI,” he added. “Combining our commercial and financial institution capabilities within one team, coupled with a broad territorial appetite and Lloyd’s backing, we have created a formidable offering.”
With offices in the UK, Europe, USA, Asia, Africa and the Middle East, Rokstone is a leading specialist MGA serving the needs of international re/insurance brokers in specialty lines business. It currently underwrites more than US$1.1 billion in gross written premiums in several specialty lines including property, power generation, marine, aviation, warranty, credit & surety treaty, agriculture, construction & engineering, accident & health, contingency, liability and sports & leisure.
Source: Rokstone

Topics
Insurance Wholesale
