Miller, the London-based specialist re/insurance broker, announced it has agreed to acquire AHJ Holdings Ltd., the ultimate parent company of Alwen Hough Johnson Ltd. and AHJ Europe AS.
The acquisition is expected to close in Q2 2025, subject to normal approvals. Financial details of the transaction were not disclosed.
Founded in 1973, London-based AHJ is a highly regarded specialist reinsurance broker, with 90 employees across London and Scandinavia. AHJ has a focus on reinsurance across property/casualty and marine & energy and also places business in a number of niche insurance lines.
The acquisition of AHJ will be highly complementary to Miller’s reinsurance strategy, which has seen it acquire capital advisory business 4809 Brokers and leading Spanish re/insurance broker Bruzon in 2024.
In addition to providing immediate scale and capability in treaty reinsurance, it will give Miller access to AHJ’s strong positioning in Nordic, Caribbean and North American Treaty business.
“The acquisition of AHJ is our most significant investment since returning to independence in 2021 and a major milestone for Miller, significantly accelerating our reinsurance strategy,” commented James Hands, CEO of Miller, in a statement.
“Alongside sharing our commitment to specialism, AHJ is an excellent cultural fit and, like us, their success has been built on a client-first philosophy and desire to develop long-term relationships,” Hands added.
“AHJ will give us an established reinsurance platform from which to drive further growth, including meaningful hiring plans as we seek to attract talent that wants to be part of an independent specialist,” he said.
“All at AHJ are proud of the business that has been built over the past 52 years. In Miller we believe that we have identified the ideal partner, one who will enable us to maintain that which has made AHJ distinct, while presenting us with new opportunities,” according to Gary Masters, CEO of AHJ.
“We are excited to be able to bring new services to our client base, in particular Miller’s facultative and capital advisory capabilities, in addition to the advantage provided by Miller’s market leading position across many specialty insurance lines throughout the London and international markets,” Masters said.
“The acquisition of AHJ builds on our existing capability in treaty reinsurance, representing a step change in our market footprint and significantly moving forward our strategy,” said Shaun Sinniah, head of Reinsurance and Capital, Miller.
Miller was advised by Macquarie Capital, Herbert Smith Freehills and PWC and AHJ was advised by Grant Thornton and Stephenson Harwood.
Source: Miller

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
