This edition of International People Moves details appointments at the MGA DUAL, Lockton Re and Chubb.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
DUAL Europe Announces 2 Key Appointments
DUAL, the London-based managing general agent and Howden subsidiary, announced two key appointments in its newly created DUAL Europe region, effective immediately.
These promotions follow the announcement in April of Maurizio Ghilosso as executive chair, DUAL Europe.
Olaf Jonda, currently managing director, DUAL Deutschland, will take on the role of CEO, DUAL Europe, reporting to Richard Clapham, CEO, DUAL Group
Daniela Rubes, currently CFO, DUAL Italia, has been appointed chief financial officer, DUAL Europe.
The creation of a DUAL Europe leadership team reflects the importance of the region in DUAL Group’s plans to grow to a US$5 billion GWP international MGA by 2027. DUAL has been operating in Europe for almost 25 years, having launched in Spain in 1998 and now operates from 14 European locations in 10 countries employing 200 people.
“I am thrilled to welcome Olaf and Daniela to the DUAL Europe regional leadership team. They have both been with DUAL for more than 10 years and these well-deserved promotions absolutely demonstrate our philosophy of attracting and developing the best talent in the industry,” commented Ghilosso. “Olaf and Daniela bring an in-depth knowledge not just of DUAL but also of the wider European market that will be invaluable as we position ourselves for further growth.”
“Our ambition is to grow DUAL Europe to a US$750 million GWP business over the next five years, and Olaf and Daniela will play a significant role in delivering this growth,” said Richard Clapham, CEO, DUAL Group.
About DUAL
DUAL, the specialist underwriting arm of Howden Group Holdings, is one of the world’s largest international underwriting agencies with US$2.3 billion of GWP. Established in 1998, today DUAL has over 1,000 people in 19 countries across the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific, and is one of Lloyd’s’ largest international coverholders.
Lockton Re Names Aon’s Breslin to Build Capital Markets Capability
Lockton Re, the global reinsurance business of the world’s largest privately held independent insurance broker, announced that Zach Breslin has been named leader of Lockton Re Capital Markets and will support the build-out of the practice.
Breslin was most recently managing director, Aon Securities in New York. Previously, he had spent time at Berkley Offshore on the underwriting side, giving him a great 360 degree view of the market, said Lockton Re in a statement.
While Breslin will be based in New York, his role will be to work with clients and colleagues across the globe.
“We are delighted Zach has joined Lockton Re, his enthusiasm for the business is testament to our culture, strategy and the great team. I have now been at Lockton Re for a year and the growth and success we have seen during that time has been phenomenal,” said Robert Bisset, chairman Global Retrocession & Property Specialty, Bermuda & Market Capital, Lockton Re.
“The build out of our Capital Markets capability is the last piece of the puzzle in terms of my remit, and I’m so excited to have Zach spearheading this important area as we continue to garner great support from clients and markets across the reinsurance world,” he added.
Chubb Promotes Thompson for Int’l Personal Lines, Hernandez for Int’l Accident & Health
Chubb Ltd. announced that John Thompson has been appointed vice president, Chubb Group and division president of International Personal Lines. The company also named Daniela Hernandez division president of International Accident & Health (A&H).
Both divisions are part of Overseas General Insurance, the company’s international general insurance business that operates in 51 countries and territories.
Thompson’s and Hernandez’s new roles were effective June 1 and both will report to Juan Luis Ortega, executive vice president, Chubb Group, and president, Overseas General Insurance.
Thompson was previously division president, International A&H. In his new role, he will be responsible for leading Chubb’s division that provides a broad range of traditional and specialty personal lines insurance products to targeted customer segments. Thompson succeeds Darryl Page, vice president, Chubb Group, who is retiring following a 10-year career with the company. Page will remain with Chubb through July 1 and will work with Thompson to ensure a smooth transition.
Hernandez, who is succeeding Thompson, was previously the leader of Chubb’s Life and A&H business in Chile, which included the company’s strategic partnership with Banco de Chile. In her new role, she will be responsible for the company’s international personal accident, supplemental health and travel insurance businesses.
Thompson joined the company, then named ACE, in 2012 as senior vice president and chief underwriting officer for International Personal Lines, playing a leading role in advancing the company’s global consumer product and geographic diversification strategy with a focus on auto, residential and high net worth portfolios. He started his career as an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. Thompson holds bachelor’s and master’s degrees in economics from Utah State University and an MBA degree from the Yale School of Management.
Hernandez joined ACE as a financial lines underwriter in 2014. Prior to her current role, she held leadership positions in Latin America as chief of staff for the region and head of A&H distribution in Mexico. Hernandez holds a double bachelor’s degree in Finance and International Trade and International Business Administration from Universidad del Rosario in Colombia and has completed post graduate work in risk and information economics at La Universidad de los Andes in Colombia.
“John is taking on the leadership of our international personal lines business after five years leading our international A&H business, contributing to the establishment of several strategic partnerships around the world and evolving our digital strategies. He successfully navigated the complexities brought on by the pandemic, ultimately providing Chubb with a stronger A&H franchise,” said Ortega.
“I’m delighted to welcome Daniela to her new international A&H leadership role,” continued Ortega. “Daniela brings tremendous experience from managing some of the company’s largest distribution relationships in Latin America, as well as serving in key roles that contributed to the growth of Chubb’s A&H business in the region.”
Ortega went on to thank Page for his leadership over the past 10 years, when the company’s personal lines business grew significantly and became “a meaningful component of our international consumer business.”

Topics
Europe
Aon
Chubb
