This edition of International People Moves details appointments at special re/insurer Chaucer Group and the London-based broker Howden.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Canopius Taps Getty From Talbot for Cyber Team
Canopius Group, the London-based global specialty and property/casualty re/insurer, announced the appointment of Chris Getty as cyber and technology Underwriter.
Getty joins with immediate effect, strengthening Canopius’ extensive cyber and technology expertise, and will report directly to Mike Shen, head of Cyber & Technology, London Market.
Getty brings over nine years of cyber insurance experience to Canopius. He joins from Talbot Underwriting where he served, most recently, as head of Cyber and Technology, responsible for leading the London and New York underwriting teams. Getty began his career with Barlow Lyde & Gilbert LLP and is a qualified solicitor.
The appointment is the latest in a series of new hires to the Canopius Cyber and Technology business, with Sam Minshaw appointed as cyber claims manager at the beginning of the year and Alex Fyfe joining as cyber claims adjuster at the end of March. Boosting its global offering, Canopius also appointed Catherine Sims as cyber claims adjuster in New York earlier this year.
“Chris is a highly regarded underwriter and leader who has quickly made a name for himself in the cyber market. Our cyber book in London has grown rapidly through a combination of expert underwriting, product innovation and diversification,” Shen commented.
“Maintaining this momentum requires bringing in market leading talent to complement our existing team. Chris is the ideal candidate to help us realise our ambitious growth plans while ensuring the exceptional standard and approach which our broking partners expect from Canopius.”
Canopius is a global specialty re/insurer with underwriting operations in Australia, Bermuda, Singapore, the UK and US. It underwrites through Lloyd’s Syndicate 4444 (managed by Canopius Managing Agents Ltd.); Canopius US Insurance Inc. (a US surplus lines insurer); and Canopius Reinsurance Ltd. (a Bermuda-based Class 4 reinsurer).
Howden Promotes Hipson to Head of London Broking
Howden, the London-based insurance intermediary group, announced that Paul Hipson has stepped up into the newly created role of head of London Broking for the Corporate & Commercial pillar within Howden UK & Ireland, effective from June 2024.
In his new role, Hipson will have overall responsibility for the existing London broking team, which predominantly helps Howden UK & Ireland place property, casualty and motor business into the insurance market. This role forms part of Howden UK&I’s core growth plans, and Hipson will be tasked with growing the broking operation on a national scale, continuing to build relationships with insurer partners whilst enhancing the broking support for colleagues to the benefit of our clients.
This new position is in addition to Hipson’s existing responsibilities leading the London Corporate Existing Business team, which is reflected in his new title of head of London Corporate and Broking.
The news follows the announcement of Paul Hasib’s promotion to the role of chief placement officer for the Corporate & Commercial pillar in April 2024. Hipson will report into Hasib and will work closely with the Placement team.
Hipson has worked for Howden, Aston Lark and predecessor companies for almost 21 years. After a brief spell in the Corporate Claims team, he held a variety of roles as account handler, account executive and manager, before heading up the London Corporate Existing Business team. Under his leadership, the team has grown significantly and now comprises 25 individuals placing more than £25 million GWP into the insurance market.
Founded in 1994, Howden operates in 55 countries across Europe, Africa, Asia, the Middle East, Latin America, the USA, Australia and New Zealand, employing 17,000 people and handling £30 billion of premium.

Topics
Cyber
London
