Miller, the independent specialist re/insurance broker, announced the acquisition of Lead Insurance Services Ltd. Lead is based in Tokyo, Japan, and the acquisition cements a longstanding relationship between the two businesses.
Founded in 1994, Lead specializes in hull, war risks and protection & indemnity insurance, offering a highly complementary service to Miller’s current marine capabilities. Lead has a strong client base and has been working alongside Miller for a quarter of a century.
“This acquisition is a natural next step in our relationship, and will enable us to build on Miller’s existing strength in the marine space – a key class for us,” commented Greg Collins, CEO at London-based Miller.
“Our longstanding partnership means we already know Lead extremely well and we are pleased to have such an experienced team join Miller. In particular, their deep relationships with the Japanese ship owning community has created a robust niche and, combined with their consistent growth and reputation for excellent client service, the acquisition is a great fit for our own culture and ambitions. We look forward to continuing to grow our presence in Japan with Lead and our other trusted partners in the market,” Collins added.
“We are delighted to be joining Miller and taking this next step in our relationship. In Miller, we have found a partner that can help us achieve our ambitions while sharing our belief in the importance of providing excellent service, allowing our clients to continue receiving the same high-quality advice we are known for as we continue to grow,” said Lead President Toru Suzuki.
Source: Miller

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
