This edition of International People Moves details appointments at re/insurer Everest Group and Evolin Broking.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Everest Launches Global Broker Management Team Led by Izzo
Everest Group Ltd., the Bermuda-based property, casualty, and specialty re/insurer, announced the launch of a global broker management team, a group-wide function dedicated to the shared priorities of its global distribution partners.
Anthony Izzo has been appointed chief global broking officer to lead the initiative. He assumes the position in addition to his role as head of Global Facultative & Distribution for Everest Reinsurance, overseeing Everest’s key global relationships across the company’s Insurance and Reinsurance organizations.
Reporting to Jim Williamson, Izzo will also report to Mike Karmilowicz, chairman, Global Insurance, who is working across Everest to enhance the company’s value proposition and create a framework for global broker engagement.
Additionally, Everest announced that it has appointed a leadership team dedicated to cultivating and fostering strong broker partnerships, reporting to Izzo. Rob Clark, Joe Stuhl, and Mark Shaw have been named global broker account leads. Nicole Mazer has been named global broker performance manager, who will partner with each of the global account leads focused on optimizing the company’s customer relationship management initiatives.
“Strong, long-standing broker relationships are a hallmark of Everest’s business and central to our collective success. We are strengthening our commitment to the broker community with exceptional talent and service, who are highly attuned to the market’s needs and deeply invested in delivering a world class experience,” said Williamson. “Tony and his senior team are well-respected partners to the industry, who epitomize Everest’s relationship culture.”
Evolin Broking Launches Casualty Division With 3 Senior Hires
Evolin Broking Ltd., an independent London market wholesale insurance broker, announced the launch of its casualty division with three appointments.
Kalani Settle-Rhodes has been appointed Evolin’s head of casualty. She is based in London and reports to Managing Director Chris Baulf. Settle-Rhodes joins Evolin from Bowring Marsh where she was an international casualty broker for more than eight years. Prior to this, she spent 14 years on the underwriting side at Aviva, focusing on complex commercial and high net worth business.
Shelly Leake joins Evolin as a senior broker. She is based in London and reports to Settle-Rhodes. Leake has extensive experience in broking, especially in the casualty market. She was previously on the international casualty team at Marsh. Prior to that, she also held positions in the Marsh Casualty Claims department and Swinton Insurance.
Oliver Hutchins joins Evolin as an account executive from Hugh J Boswell. He is based in London and reports to Settle-Rhodes. Hutchins has more than 17 years of industry experience, holding roles in both broking and underwriting. At Hugh J Boswell, Hutchins was a broker development manager. Prior to this, he was a commercial account handler at Marsh. He also spent more than nine years at Aviva mainly as an underwriter.
“Understanding and adapting to our clients’ needs is where Evolin stands out. There is immense opportunity in the casualty market right now and bringing in this experienced team, led by Kalani, will allow us to capitalise on this,” commented Baulf. “I am thrilled to welcome Kalani, Shelly and Oliver to the team and I look forward to working with them as we build out our casualty offering.”
Rebranded from GAWS of London in 2024, London-based Evolin is an independent Lloyd’s wholesale insurance broker and coverholder. Evolin offers tailored wholesale insurance solutions covering a variety of classes of business including cargo & stock throughput, casualty, cyber, financial & professional lines, marine, product recall, property, terrorism & political violence, and specie, to complement the holistic portfolio solutions division.

Topics
Agencies
Casualty
