This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Aon and Tokio Marine Kiln.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Aon Names Mgoqi as CEO for South Africa
Aon plc, a leading global professional services firm, has named Dr. Nolwandle Mgoqi as CEO for South Africa, effective immediately.
Before joining Aon, Mgoqi held various executive roles in the financial services sector, including most recently chief executive of Standard Insurance Ltd. and head of Insurance for Standard Bank South Africa. Prior to that, she was head of Short-Term Insurance Strategy Development and Implementation at Liberty Group, executive head of Strategic Services at Stanlib and head of Network Solutions at Santam. Mgoqi also previously worked at Old Mutual’s Group Schemes and Employee Benefits.
Mgoqi has a BA from Smith College in Massachusetts, a MSc from Howard University in Washington, D.C. and a PhD from the University of California (UCLA).
Former Aon South Africa CEO, Terence Williams, will remain as chairman of the board of Aon South Africa.
Tokio Marine Kiln Appoints AIG’s Green to Head Aviation War Risks
Tokio Marine Kiln (TMK) announced the appointment of Will Green as divisional head of war within its aviation underwriting team.
Having written this class for many years, this appointment marks the creation of a dedicated aviation war team to provide clients a service-driven and creative platform for the challenges ahead, TMK said.
Green has an extensive experience in aviation, with more than 13 years in insurance underwriting and broking roles. Green has an extensive background in aviation and joins TMK from AIG, where he was underwriting manager for airline. He has also held underwriting roles at Talbot Syndicate and Munich Re and was aviation broker for seven years at Marsh & McLennan.
He reports to David Slevin, head of aviation, alongside two other senior members of the team: Lisa Leahy, divisional head of airlines, who joined TMK at the end of 2022, and Graham Oddie, divisional head of general aviation and aerospace.
“We expect uncertainty to continue over the next few decades, which highlights the need for specialist war markets,” Slevin said. “At TMK, we want to ensure that the market repositions itself and is robust enough to withstand increased geopolitical volatility. I’m delighted to welcome Will to the team.”
TMK has written aviation business since 1976 and is the largest writer of aviation risks in the Lloyd’s market by gross written premiums.  Recent geopolitical uncertainty and an increasingly complex trading environment have heightened focus and demand for specialist war risks coverage, the company said.

Topics
Aviation
Aon
AIG
