This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Beazley and BMS Re.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Beazley Taps Generali’s Foucher as Head of Commercial Property, Europe
Beazley, the London-based specialty insurer, announced the appointment of Sara Foucher as head of Commercial Property, Europe, effective immediately.
Based in Paris, Foucher will spearhead the development of Beazley’s property offering while growing the team across the region to meet the demand for specialty solutions. She will report to Richard Montminy, group head of Property Risks.
Foucher brings three decades of industry experience to Beazley. She joins from Generali, where she was head of Underwriting GC&C, France. Prior to this, she held a number of senior positions, including property underwriting director for France and Belgium at RSA and head of Property, France, at Swiss Re Corporate Solutions.
“Businesses across Europe need access to specialist property insurance solutions as climate risk and rising asset values are transforming the risks to which property owners are exposed,” commented Montminy.
“Sara’s appointment signals our intent to grow our presence in the market and her reputation and experience makes her perfectly placed to galvanise the build out of our team across Europe and I look forward to working with her,” Montminy added.
Beazley plc, is the parent company of specialist insurance businesses with operations in Europe, North America, Latin America, and Asia. Beazley manages seven Lloyd’s syndicates. In the US admitted market, coverage is provided by Beazley Insurance Company Inc., an A.M. Best A-rated carrier licensed in all 50 states and its subsidiary, Beazley America Insurance Company Inc. In the surplus lines market, coverage is provided by the Beazley syndicates at Lloyd’s, and also from Beazley Excess and Surplus Insurance Inc. Beazley’s European insurance company, Beazley Insurance dac, is regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland and is A rated by A.M. Best and A+ by Fitch.
BMS Re Appoints Hughes and Bartell from Howden Re for Non-Marine Reinsurance
BMS Re, the reinsurance arm of independent insurance and reinsurance broker BMS Group, announces two senior appointments. Jonathan Hughes and Martin Bartell join BMS from Howden Re and will be based in London.
Both will report directly to Hannah Watkins, chief growth officer.
Hughes joins BMS Re as managing director – non-marine reinsurance. Hughes brings three decades of experience to the role across major industry players including Guy Carpenter, AXIS and Aon. Most recently, he held the role of managing director and retro broker at Howden Re.
Bartell joins BMS Re as director – non-marine reinsurance. He began his career as a broker in 1986 at Alexander Howden. Previous employers also include Benfield, Gallagher Re and Aon. He spent the last decade working as a broker in the UK specialty and retro desk at Howden Re.
In line with the reinsurance growth strategy defined following the arrival of Brad Melvin as BMS Re US CEO, the new hires will bolster the capabilities of the existing London-based reinsurance team, with responsibilities extending into the Bermuda market and cross-collaboration with global teams. The development of the London reinsurance platform is a key component of BMS Re’s global strategy, aimed at ensuring clients have access to truly independent services across the board.
Their arrival follows other recent high-profile hires for BMS including group chief broking officer Richard Dudley, previously global head of Climate Strategy at Aon and CEO of Aon’s Commercial Risk Wholesale and Specialty Broking operations in London.
“We are pleased to welcome two new exceptional team members. Based in London but with a global mindset and approach, their combined expertise and proven track record make them great additions to BMS Re,” commented Watkins.
“In close collaboration with our teams in the US, London and Bermuda, Jonathan and Martin will help us deliver creative and strategic solutions for our clients, reflecting our investment in and commitment to the reinsurance sector,” he added.

Topics
Commercial Lines
Business Insurance
Europe
Reinsurance
Property
