This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Sompo International and Howden Broking.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Sompo Taps AXA XL’s Murley as Head of UK Distribution, Insurance
Sompo, the Bermuda-based provider of commercial and consumer property/casualty re/insurance, announced the appointment of Allan Murley as head of Distribution, Insurance for the United Kingdom.
In his new role, Murley will be responsible for overseeing the coordination, development and delivery of Sompo’s UK distribution activities across the London Market and regionally.
He will be based in London and the appointment is effective in the fourth quarter.
Murley joins Sompo from AXA XL where he was head of UK Broker Management since 2019. He has more than 30 years of experience in the insurance industry, including 14 years at Zurich, before joining XL in 2014 as client and distribution leader.
“Allan is a well-known and highly respected insurance professional with a proven track record of success over many years,” commented Bob Thaker, CEO, Commercial P&C Insurance, Sompo, UK. “His experience, acumen and understanding of the market, combined with outstanding leadership skills will help us drive momentum across Sompo’s business in the UK and support our ambitions for continued profitable growth.”
Sompo International (also known as Sompo International Holdings Ltd.) is a Bermuda-based holding company with more than 9000 employees. Through its operating subsidiaries, Sompo International is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of property/casualty group Sompo Holdings Inc. Sompo’s UK re/insurance business is underwritten by Endurance Worldwide Insurance Ltd., and risks falling within the European Economic Area are underwritten by SI Insurance (Europe) SA. Both companies are wholly owned subsidiaries of Sompo International Holdings Ltd.
Howden’s Aviation Announces 4 Senior Hires
Howden announced it has appointed four new hires to its aviation division: David Greengrass, Dane Bird, Matthew Giddings, and Mike Hart.
David Greengrass joins Howden from WTW where he spent six years in the airline team having held the position of executive director. Prior to this, he began his career at Marsh & McLennan. In this time has gained significant experience working on large and complex risks across multiple geographies.
Dane Bird joins from WTW in September as a senior account handler/broker, bringing specialist aerospace capabilities, including managing client relationships and maintaining strong market partnerships.
Matthew Giddings will join Howden from Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. in September as a divisional director. Giddings is a leading aerospace broker with nearly 20 years of experience in program design and management of aerospace clients, worldwide.
Finally, hull war expert – Mike Hart – will join Howden Aviation. His extensive knowledge and decades of industry experience will support the continued growth of Howden’s airline and hull war client base, Howden said.

Topics
Aviation
AXA XL
