This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Lockton Re and DUAL Deutschland.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Lockton Re Names Aon’s Wilkinson in New Role as International Head of Analytics
Lockton Re, the reinsurance business of independent insurance broker Lockton, announced that Mark Wilkinson has been appointed international head of Analytics and will be based in Lockton Re’s London office.
Wilkinson brings more than 25 years of re/insurance experience to Lockton Re and was most recently head of UK Actuarial at Aon. Previous to that, he was head of Actuarial at Aon Global Re Specialty having joined the actuarial team in 2008. Wilkinson has also held key roles at Guy Carpenter, QBE (Limit Underwriting), and HSBC Insurance Brokers. He is a fellow of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries and a recognized expert in his field.
“Mark is a great addition to our expanding Analytics team. Over the last year we have grown our analytics capability in London by nearly 50 percent and are continuing to invest across the globe both in terms of people and technology,” commented Claude Yoder, global head of Analytics, Lockton Re.
“This new role is part of our continued innovation drive, ensuring the right people and technology are in place for our clients and markets,” Yoder added.
Robert Bisset, chairman of Global Retrocession & Property Specialty, Bermuda, and Market Capital, said: “We remain very active with [requests for proposals] as well as having a substantial renewal portfolio, so it will be excellent to have someone of Mark’s caliber to add further expertise and support to the team.”
“We have experienced fast paced growth over the last four years in terms of our team, our capabilities, and our clients. Analytics remains at the core of this success and we will continue to invest in this important area, welcoming market leading talent like Mark to the team,” said Keith Harrison, International CEO, Lockton Re said,
DUAL Deutschland Hires Former Gothaer Exec Huy as Managing Director
DUAL Europe announced the appointment of Frank Huy as managing director, DUAL Deutschland. Huy will join in April 2024 and will report to Olaf Jonda, CEO of DUAL Europe. Huy takes over the MD role from Annett Marschollek who has recently moved to a pan-European role as COO for DUAL Europe.
Huy joins DUAL from German insurer Gothaer, where he has held several roles since 2012, serving most recently as head of Liability and Financial Lines. He has also worked at HDI-Gerling Firmen und Privat Versicherung and Nassau Versicherungen.
“We are truly delighted to welcome Frank to DUAL. Frank brings a deep understanding of the German insurance market, and specialist expertise in financial lines and cyber, which are both key business lines for DUAL Deutschland,” commented Jonda.
“I am really looking forward to joining the team at DUAL. Over the last two decades, DUAL has built an excellent reputation as a leading financial lines MGA,” said Huy.
“With the recent introduction of several new business lines, I believe that there is significant potential to grow the business even further. DUAL has a people first and empowered culture, which combined with their focus on underwriting excellence, makes it an attractive partner for brokers and insurers alike.”
DUAL Deutschland was established in 2005, and today employs 100 people focused on delivering a range of market-leading products and is supported by long standing insurer partners. DUAL, the specialist underwriting arm of Howden Group Holdings, was established in 1998 and today employs more than 1,400 people in 21 countries across the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific, and is one of Lloyd’s’ largest international coverholders. DUAL Europe operates from 16 locations in 12 countries.

Topics
Talent
Aon
Human Resources
