Ryan Specialty, the Chicago-based international specialty insurance firm, announced the expansion of its renewable energy insurance offering on a global basis with PERse International, a managing general underwriter based in London.
PERse International specializes in both onshore and offshore renewable insurance and is a part of the firm’s underwriting specialty unit, Ryan Specialty Underwriting Managers (RSUM).
Stuart Burchell, head of PERse International, leads the new managing general underwriter with Adam Hearn and Josh Cantwell heading up the Onshore and Offshore divisions, respectively.
The team has delegated underwriting authority of up to $100 million and is focused on supporting the continued, global growth of renewable energy. “We are excited to join and contribute to the continued growth of Ryan Specialty Underwriting Managers. The team brings longstanding relationships, experience and knowledge in the renewables sector and as part of Ryan Specialty, we have the ideal platform for both growth and innovation within our field,” Burchell commented.
“We are excited to deliver renewable energy solutions to our clients globally. We deeply appreciate the support of our carriers as we expand our renewables footprint into the United Kingdom, Europe and Rest of World. We are pleased to have this exceptional team with us, recognized with a fully supported offering,” according to Miles Wuller, president and CEO of Ryan Specialty Underwriting Managers.
Founded in 2010, Ryan Specialty is a service provider of specialty products and solutions for insurance brokers, agents and carriers. Ryan Specialty provides distribution, underwriting, product development, administration and risk managementservices by acting as a wholesale broker and a managing underwriter with delegated authority from insurance carriers.
Source: Ryan Specialty
Photograph: Wind turbines work at sunset on a wind farm near Aschersleben, Germany, on July 23, 2023. (AP Photo/Matthias Schrader, File)

Topics
Excess Surplus
Energy
