The top 10 most well-read international stories for 2024 covered a diverse range of topics, including nuclear verdicts, Taylor Swift’s concert cancellations, and the return of stability of the reinsurance market. Two articles focused on the Baltimore Bridge collapse.
We’ve also included a list of some additional well-read articles which mostly focus on the hard market and whether it will last in 2025.
US Nuclear Verdicts Break Records and Drive Social Inflation to 7% in 2023: Report
Topping the list is this article about nuclear verdicts – which is mainly a US topic – but it’s of great interest to any company with US exposures. Let’s not forget the truism: “As America goes, so goes the world.” The article said that US nuclear verdicts broke records in 2023 with 27 court cases that each awarded compensation of more than US$100 million during 2023. Social inflation in US rose to 7% in 2023 – a 20-year high – a situation that is being driven by litigation costs from mega-jury awards, according to Swiss Re executives and a report they released titled “Litigation costs drive claims inflation: indexing liability loss trends.”
Titanic Law Helps Ship Owner Limit Bridge Collapse Liability
Coming in at number two on the list is an article covering the obscure 19th-century law that was invoked by the owner of the Titanic, in order to limit its payout for the vessel’s sinking in 1912 sinking. Legal experts say there is a path to reduce liability under this law. Here’s another article, which didn’t make it to the Top 10 international articles, but reiterates some of the messages. No doubt, the court battles will be lengthy.
Taylor Swift Cancellations Deal Blow to Insurers: Sources
At number three on the most-read list of 2024 is an article about the insurance ramifications of the cancellations of three Taylor Swift concerts in Austria, following reports that authorities had foiled a terrorist attack. Swift is popular among insurers as she rarely cancels concerts, this Reuters article said, noting that her celebrity and success mean that most specialist event cancellation insurers in London would be involved in coverage of her tour. Much event cancellation insurance tends to be insured through Lloyd’s of London by a consortium of insurers, the article said, adding that the costs of the cancellations were estimated by DBRS Morningstar to be in the tens of millions of dollars.
 What were the top stories in each region? Glad you asked.

Top National Insurance Journal Stories of 2024
Top East Region Insurance Journal Stories of 2024
Top Midwest Insurance Journal Stories of 2024
Top South Central Region Insurance Journal Stories of 2024
Top Southeast Region Insurance Journal Stories of 2024
Top West Region Insurance Journal Stories of 2024