This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Bermuda-based AXIS Capital Holdings and SiriusPoint.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
AXIS appoints Dejung as Global Cyber & Technology CUO
AXIS Capital Holdings Ltd. announced the appointment of Simon Dejung as chief underwriting officer, Global Cyber & Technology (GCT), effective immediately.
Dejung will be responsible for overseeing underwriting profitability across the GCT global platforms including North America, Europe, and the London market. He will also help to drive strategy and elevate standards in underwriting and enterprise portfolio management.
He will be based in Zurich, Switzerland, and report to Lori Bailey, head of Global Cyber & Technology.
Dejung brings deep knowledge of cyber and specialty lines insurance and reinsurance and joins AXIS from SCOR where he spent 13 years, most recently serving as cyber chief underwriting officer.
Before joining the insurance industry, Dejung held senior technical roles across various sectors, including science, engineering, and energy – experience that equips Dejung with valuable first-hand understanding of customer needs around operational risk including cyber risk management.
SiriusPoint Names 3 Key Leaders in Global Underwriting
SiriusPoint Ltd., the Bermuda-based re/insurer, announced the appointment of three industry leaders in global underwriting.
Christopher Larson joins as global head of Casualty, based in New York; David Godlis has been hired as underwriting strategy and analytics lead, based in New York; and Ramiz Mohamed will join as global head of exposure management, based in London.
Larson reports to David Govrin, group president and chief underwriting officer, while Godlis and Mohamed report to Anthony Shapella, deputy chief underwriting officer at SiriusPoint.
Godlis joined on Feb. 26, 2024 to lead the assessment of underwriting profitability and return on capital, and drive performance management and capital allocation initiatives to shape the firm’s global underwriting strategy. Godlis joins SiriusPoint from Jefferies where he was a member of the Power and Infrastructure investment banking team. Prior to that, he held several roles in risk and portfolio management at AIG.
Larson joined on March 4, 2024 to lead casualty underwriting and product strategy globally with direct oversight of casualty reinsurance. He will work closely with the company’s North America and International teams to execute the casualty product strategy for direct insurance and program business. Larson joins SiriusPoint from BMS Group where he was a managing director and co-head of Casualty. Prior to BMS, he spent nearly 25 years at QBE Reinsurance Corp. where he served as a senior vice president and global head of Casualty Reinsurance. Larson started his career at AIG in New York as an E&O underwriter.
Mohamed will join the company on April 15, 2024. He will lead the design and execution of all portfolio and exposure risk management and reporting globally. He brings to the role over a decade of experience in insurance and reinsurance portfolio management, pricing, and reserving. Mohamed joins SiriusPoint from Hiscox where he held several roles including head of Casualty Exposure Management, head of Underwriting Portfolio Management, and head of Cyber Pricing. Prior to that, he worked at XL Catlin for five years in various actuarial roles.
These appointments follow the recent appointments of Chris Fenn as head of Marine, London, and John Hopper as head of Energy.

Topics
Cyber
New York
Underwriting
Tech
Leadership
