Miller, the London-based independent specialist re/insurance broker, announced the acquisition of Henner Sports from the Henner Group. Miller expects the acquisition to be highly complementary to its current market leadership in sports insurance.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
Founded in 2000, Henner Sports is a leading French re/insurance broker specializing in the sports sector. Today, it has a multilingual team of 14 employees based in Paris. Henner Sports’ client base is focused on high-profile professional athletes and sports organizations, with clients including the French national basketball team and the majority of the French international football players. In addition to its highly regarded football offering, Henner Sports acts for clients across a range of other sports such as cycling and rugby. Products include insurance for individuals, clubs, and federations.
Alongside offering insurance and reinsurance broking services, Henner Sports also operates as a delegated underwriting agent for a number of its partner carriers.
“We have clear aspirations to expand Miller’s footprint in Europe through targeted expansion and are pleased to announce the acquisition of Henner Sports as part of this strategy,” commented Greg Collins, CEO, Miller. “In Henner Sports we recognised a strong fit for Miller’s approach and culture, with its rapid growth underpinned by exceptional service from a practitioner-led team, a number of whom are former professional footballers. We look forward to welcoming the Henner Sports team to Miller and supporting their growth ambitions.”
“Miller is already a market leader in sports insurance, and Henner Sports is a natural fit to further strengthen this offering. They have established an outstanding client base and reputation in France, in particular within football, and have developed a proprietary online underwriting tool that signficiantly enhances distribution,” said James Hands, joint head of Special Risks at Miller.
“We are delighted to join Miller, their commitment to a client-led approach and the strength of their existing Sports team makes them a natural fit for us. We have significant ambitions for our next phase of growth, including establishing a greater international presence and a broader product offering. In Miller, we are pleased to have found a partner that can help us achieve these ambitions while sharing our belief in the importance of specialism and service excellence,” said Didier Loiseau, directeur Général, Henner Sport.
Source: Miller

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
