Strategic Risk Solutions (SRS), the Concord, Mass.-based independent insurance company manager, announced the launch of its latest alternative risk transfer (ART) venture: a managing general underwriter called “Altitude.”
In a strategic move aimed at expanding its client services portfolio, SRS Altitude, headquartered in Zurich, will operate as an independent entity under the SRS umbrella, offering a comprehensive suite of ART solutions designed to address the growing complex risk management challenges and needs of corporate clients across industries.
“We are thrilled to introduce Altitude as an integral part of our long-term commitment to providing exceptional client service,” said Brady Young, CEO of SRS. “The launch of Altitude represents a significant milestone in our ongoing efforts to diversify our offerings and enhance our ability to differentiate and meet the evolving needs of our valued clients, captives and broker partners.”
Loredana Mazzoleni Neglén, former Swiss Re Corporate Solutions senior executive, will lead Altitude as global CEO. In addition, Strategic Risk Solutions has recruited several seasoned ART and Corporate insurance industry experts that will join in the coming months.
“We have assembled a team with an outstanding track record and genuinely industry-leading capabilities to launch Altitude in the market, ensuring our clients receive best in class service,” Young commented.
Clients, captives, and broker partners can expect a bespoke approach to risk management backed by strong underwriting solutions competence and track records, ensuring that their unique needs are met with precision and care, the company said.
Altitude will focus on a wide array of ART solutions with an emphasis on best in class structured re/insurance and parametric offerings. Altitude will continuously explore emerging trends and technologies in the insurance landscape such as climate change and supply chain disruption, offering clients access to the latest innovations.
Altitude is set to begin operations in the first quarter of 2024.
SRS provides management and consulting services to the insurance and alternative risk financing industry with operations in the United States, Canada, Europe, Barbados, Bermuda, Cayman Islands, Latin America, and South Africa.
Source: Strategic Risk Solutions (SRS)

Topics
New Markets
