This edition of International People Moves details appointments at TigerRisk Partners, HDI Global, and BMS.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
 TigerRisk Hires Aon’s Tuttle as Partner, Senior Reinsurance Broker
TigerRisk Partners, the Stamford, Conn. insurance and reinsurance broker, has announced the appointment of Bill Tuttle as partner, senior reinsurance broker.
Tuttle will be responsible for guiding key clients through complex property placements in this difficult time in the market cycle. He has over 35 years’ experience in the property/casualty industry, and joins most recently from Aon, where he was managing director with a focus on property catastrophe clients. Based in Minnesota, Tuttle will report to Dan Miller.
Tuttle began his career at E.W. Blanch Co. in 1985, working as a reinsurance broker, where he was also involved in the development of new catastrophe models. He then moved to Risk Management Solutions Inc. (RMS) in 2000 as vice president of Product Marketing, helping to improve catastrophe modeling products and develop new exposure management solutions.
“Bill will provide an immediate benefit in helping our clients navigate their property placements in this difficult time in the cycle,” said Rob Bredahl, chief executive officer of TigerRisk Partners. “Bill has established an impressive reputation during his time in the P&C markets, broking complex programs with significant limits in both hard and soft markets. That combined with his know-how in cat modeling and exposure management will add tremendous talent and expertise to our firm, and continues our commitment to providing clients with senior level expertise and unparalleled service.”
Founded in 2008, TigerRisk has offices in Stamford, New York, Bermuda, London, Hong Kong, Minneapolis, Chicago and Raleigh.
HDI Global Promotes 3 for UK, Ireland Teams
HDI Global SE – UK & Ireland (HDI) announced three new appointments in its regional and Irish teams to support its 2022-2025 growth ambitions.
In Ireland, Barry Woods has been promoted to the role of property manager and will be responsible for growing and steering the portfolio in the country. Woods will report to Niall Carberry, head of Underwriting, Ireland, who joined the company in January.
In the UK, Dave Hall has been promoted to the role of head of Liability, UK Regions, and will assume responsibility for the regional liability portfolio and team.
Similarly, Carley Clifton has been promoted to the role of property manager, UK Regions, and will assume responsibility for the regional property portfolio and team. Both Hall and Clifton will continue to report to Paul Williams, head of Underwriting, UK Regions.
All appointments are effective immediately.
Biographies
BMS Appoints Howden’s Powell as Chief Commercial Officer
BMS, the London-based independent insurance and reinsurance broker, announced the appointment of Eliot Powell as group chief commercial officer, effective March 21. Based in London and reporting into Nick Cook, CEO of BMS, Powell will take a vital role in further expanding and delivering on BMS’ strategic business goals.
Powell joins BMS with more than 25 years of industry experience, having grown a successful, independent brokerage business, before being acquired by Howden in late 2014.
At Howden he held a variety of senior roles, most notably global chief transformation officer. In his previous position, he was responsible for much of the digital development across the business and had oversight over the adoption of digital strategies and new ways of working.
Powell will join the BMS Group executive committee “and will focus on delivering our strategic goals, our continued digital transformation, and the company’s geographical expansion through M&A,” commented Cook.

Topics
Agencies
Commercial Lines
Liability
Reinsurance
Aon
