Arthur J. Gallagher & Co., the Rolling Meadows, Illinois-headquartered insurance brokerage, risk management and consulting services firm, announced the acquisition of a Canadian and Australian insurance brokerages.
In Canada, Gallagher purchased Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario-based Dawson & Keenan Insurance Ltd. In a second deal, in Australia, it acquired Lambton, New South Wales-based Hann Insurance Brokers Pty Ltd.
Financial terms of both deals were not disclosed.
Dawson & Keenan Insurance is a retail insurance brokerage serving personal and commercial lines clients in Northern Ontario. Larry Day and his team will remain in their current location under the direction of Dave Partington, head of Gallagher’s Canadian retail property/casualty brokerage operations.
“Dawson & Keenan Insurance has a long-standing reputation in the region and will provide growth opportunities for our retail brokerage operations in Canada,” said J. Patrick Gallagher Jr., chairman and CEO. “I am delighted to welcome Larry and his associates to Gallagher.”
The second acquisition of Hann Insurance Brokers provides property/casualty insurance services for commercial clients throughout Australia with a focus on transport.
Rhett Hann and his team will join Gallagher’s Newcastle, New South Wales office under the direction of Sarah Lyons, head of retail property/casualty brokerage operations for Gallagher in Australia and Asia.
“Hann Insurance Brokers’ strong client relationships and transport niche expertise will expand our retail brokerage capabilities in Australia,” said Chairman J. Patrick Gallagher Jr.
Source: Arthur J. Gallagher & Co.

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
Canada
Australia
A.J. Gallagher
