This edition of International People Moves details appointments at AXIS Capital Holdings and Xenia Broking Group.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
AXIS Names Lord as Global CIO, Barriero as Head of Strategic Sourcing, Corporate Real Estate
AXIS Capital Holdings Ltd. announced the hiring and appointment of Stephen Lord as global chief information officer (CIO) and Robert Barriero as global head of Strategic Sourcing and Corporate Real Estate.
As Global CIO, Lord will report directly to President and CEO Vince Tizzio, and will serve on the company’s Executive Committee. He joins AXIS from The Hartford where his most recent role was CIO, Global Specialty, Corporate Systems, HIMCO, and Enterprise Architecture.
Previously, Lord was CIO at Navigators Group and also held technology leadership roles at Endurance. Earlier in his career, Lord spent six years with AXIS, holding a number of leadership roles, including CIO Accident & Health, global chief technology officer, and CIO Reinsurance.
Barriero joins AXIS in the newly created role of global head of Strategic Sourcing and Corporate Real Estate, and will report to Chief Administrative and Legal Officer Conrad Brooks. In this position, he will oversee the company’s Vendor Management and Facilities teams as one consolidated unit.
Most recently, Barriero served as head of Property Management – Americas at Morgan Stanley, following earlier leadership and management roles at Cushman & Wakefield, Deutsche Bank, Pfizer, and Goldman Sachs, among others.
Xenia Taps Stennett From Allianz Trade as CEO
Xenia Broking Group Ltd., the specialist trade credit insurance and surety broker and subsidiary of Brown & Brown, announced the appointment of Steven Stennett as chief executive officer.
Stennett brings over 25 years of experience in the trade credit insurance sector, holding leadership roles in business development and account management at country and international levels. He started his career with Atradius, followed by Coface where he led commercial teams across the UK and Western Europe. Most recently, he was the commercial director at Allianz Trade UK and Ireland and led the commercial distribution, marketing and commercial underwriting teams to deliver profitable growth.
Stennett succeeds Tim Coles, who has been named the CEO of the international operations of Bridge Specialty Group, the wholesale brokerage segment of Brown & Brown. Coles will remain with Xenia as chairman, with the current chairman, Jeremy Adams, stepping back from the business, having held the position since early 2019.
Xenia was launched in 2020 following a number of key acquisitions, including Credit Risk Solutions, Credit & Business Finance and the Howden Trade Credit team. Peter Hill Insurance Brokers, and Capstone Insurance Brokers in Hong Kong subsequently have been added to the Xenia team.
Xenia is a wholly owned subsidiary of Kentro Capital Ltd., a holding company that focuses on investing in MGAs and insurance brokers globally. Kentro is part of Brown & Brown (Europe) Ltd., which operates retail broking, specialist MGA, network and Lloyd’s businesses. It is an operating unit of Brown & Brown Inc.’s Retail segment.

Topics
Allianz
