This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Nexus Group and PoloWorks.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
MGA Nexus Taps Willett From Barents Re as Head of Development
Nexus Group, the London-based specialty managing general agent, announced the appointment of Steve Willett as head of Development.
Willett brings significant experience in underwriting, having been a senior underwriter for 10 years with Antares and 5 years at CNA. Prior to that, he worked for a number of specialty brokers, including SBJ, Willis, and Glencairn. His most recent role was with Barents Re where he held the position of head of Financial Lines.
In this new role, Willett main focus will be on expanding Nexus’ Financial Lines team’s global footprint and broking base, in addition to spearheading the Nexus Lloyd’s box offering.
“Historically, our focus within Directors, Officers and Financial Institutions has focused towards UK-centric territories and the non-banking sectors of the FI world,” commented Jamie Ricketts, managing director of D&O/Financial Institutions. “Steve’s experience and knowledge of the banking sector and alternative territories – including Latin America and the Caribbean – will open up new opportunities and distribution channels for us.”
Founded in 2008, Nexus is a wholly owned subsidiary of Kentro Capital Ltd., a holding company with a focus on investing in MGAs and insurance brokers globally. Kentro is a part of the Brown & Brown group.
PoloWorks Appoints CNA Hardy’s Borrel as Chief Risk Officer
PoloWorks, the Lloyd’s and London Market insurance services business, announced the appointment of Raphael Borrel to the role of chief risk officer.
Borrel will report to Paul Andrews, chief executive officer of PoloWorks and Polo Managing Agency, and will be responsible for leading the risk and compliance functions, providing oversight across Polo Management Agency and PoloWorks’ business advisory and outsourced services.
Borrel brings more than 25 years of risk management and compliance experience. Previously to joining PoloWorks, he was director of Risk Management for CNA Hardy. Prior to that, he was chief risk officer of XL Catlin Services, and also head of Information Risk at AXA XL.
Cheltenham, England-based PoloWorks comprises four divisions: Polo Commercial Insurance Services (PCIS), Polo Managing Agency (PMA), Polo Insurance Managers (PIM) and PoloPartners.

Topics
Insurance Wholesale
