Gallagher announced it has acquired Doyle Mahon Insurances, bolstering its presence in Ireland and demonstrating its commitment to expand its customer and employee base in the country.
This follows Gallagher’s acquisition of Innovu in June this year, which it has now fully integrated and is being rebranded to Gallagher on Nov. 7, marking the firm’s first direct presence in Ireland.
Founded in 2009, by Pat Doyle & Colm Mahon, Doyle Mahon is a commercial and agriculture insurance broker based in Ardcavan, Wexford.
Terms of the transaction were not disclosed.
Clients will continue to have the same day-to-day contacts, for their individual business and insurance requirements, and will benefit from access to a larger suite of insurance products and services, plus the global buying power of Gallagher.
“I’m delighted the team at Doyle Mahon Insurances is joining Gallagher. This is a great business with a well-established name in professional insurance broking built over the last 13 years. Its addition to Gallagher in Ireland recognises our continued expansion in the country and complements our overall national growth strategy,” commented Ronan Foley, CEO of Gallagher in Ireland.
“As the market continues to consolidate at pace, our ability to help smaller brokers grow and expand demonstrates why Gallagher is the partner of choice for brokers in Ireland,” Foley added. “We remain on the lookout for further acquisitions which are the right fit for Gallagher while also continuing to grow our business organically. Over the next few years, we will establish Gallagher as the go-to broker in Ireland.”
“Pat & I are thrilled for both our team and customers and we are very pleased to become part of Gallagher’s ambitious growth plans. The Gallagher team share our values and its focus on great client service fits well with what we do best – looking after our customers,” said Colm Mahon, director of Doyle Mahon Insurances.
“It is business as usual for our customers and they will continue to be supported by our excellent team in Wexford, however by becoming part of a global business we can further enhance our service and product offering.”
Source: Gallagher

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
A.J. Gallagher
