This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Tokio Marine and Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI).
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Tokio Marine Hires Underwriters from Atradius, Coface for UK Trade Credit
Tokio Marine HCC International (TMHCCI) has strengthened its UK Trade Credit division with the hire of two senior risk underwriters, Karen Crowley and Arwel Roberts.
Crowley brings with her over 20 years of experience in trade credit. In her previous role, she was a senior key account underwriter at Atradius. TMHCCI said that Crowley’s financial analysis and client communication skills will be an asset to the team.
Roberts joins from his most recent role at Coface but has also had many years within risk underwriting at Atradius. He is an experienced risk underwriter with over 16 years of industry experience and has focused on several trade sectors including services and retail.
“We are really pleased to welcome Karen and Arwel to our team. Both individuals have a wealth of technical expertise, particularly in financial analysis, as well as excellent reputations within the market,” commented Ray Massey, underwriting director – Credit.
“As senior risk underwriters they will be key in assisting with our planned growth, enhancing our product offerings to clients, brokers and buyers, and maintaining our high level of service,” Massey said.
Tokio Marine HCC is a member of the Tokio Marine Group, a global company founded in 1879 with a market capitalization of $43 billion as of Dec. 31, 2022.
BHSI Promotes Ruddlesdin to Head of Professional Indemnity in London
Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI) announced that it has promoted Ben Ruddlesdin to head of Professional Indemnity & Cyber (UK). He was previously senior underwriter, PI & Cyber.
Ruddlesdin has nearly 10 years of industry experience and has held a variety of increasingly senior roles within the professional indemnity market. Before joining BHSI in January 2020, he held various underwriting roles at The Hartford starting in February 2015.
“Ben has been integral to the growth of our PI portfolio over the past three years,” said Jessica Kirby, Head of Executive and Professional Lines, UK. “In his new role, he will work closely with Executive Underwriter David Harries and our exceptionally experienced team to take our PI presence to the next level, as we continue our growth into more primary and lead positions.”
He continues to be based in London and can be reached at ben.ruddlesdin@bhspecialty.com.

Topics
Cyber
Underwriting
London
