This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Munich Re Specialty Group and Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Munich Re Specialty Group Names Richardson as CUO of Green Solutions Portfolio
Munich Re Specialty Group announced the appointment of Julian Richardson as chief underwriting officer of Munich Re Specialty Group’s Green Solutions portfolio, effective from Sept. 1, 2023.
In this newly created role, Richardson will be responsible for the performance, management and growth of the underwriting division – directly delivering against Munich Re’s sustainability approach and Ambition 2025. He will report to Munich Re Specialty Group Chief Underwriting Officer Dominick Hoare.
Richardson joins from Parhelion Underwriting, an energy and climate risk finance company he founded in 2006, which specializes in supporting clients venture into renewable energy, carbon markets and climate compatible investment opportunities.
He has extensive experience in developing risk transfer products for associated climate and sustainability sectors and has worked with investors, policymakers, multilateral development finance organizations and the wider re/insurance industry. Previously, he served at Marsh and GE Insurance Solutions and was an adviser to the UK Government Department for International Trade on insurance and resilience finance.
“We are pleased to welcome Julian to Munich Re. His high standing among industry peers makes him the ideal candidate to accelerate the growth of our Green Solutions portfolio,” commented John Wilkinson, CEO of Munich Re Specialty Group.
“Green Solutions has a decidedly ambitious target to capture a leading market share of green commercial specialty and primary insurance risks by 2030. Through Julian’s leadership of the portfolio, combined with our Munich Re track record, I am confident we will deliver the insurance services needed to support and have a meaningful impact on the transition to a net zero economy,” he added.
“Munich Re Specialty Group has shown incredible commitment to taking real action on climate. Green Solutions is a bold and important proposition for the speciality risk market and is exactly what I have been championing for the last two decades,” said Richardson.
“I am excited to be integrating the wide-ranging sector knowledge and expertise gained from Parhelion to Munich Re’s world leading platform,” Richardson said. “In my new role as chief underwriting officer for the Green Solutions portfolio, I am determined to build on my mission of enabling the green transition, as well as continuing to increase the awareness of the insurance industry’s vital role in building a sustainable and resilient world.”
BHSI Names Walker to Lead UK National Business
Culminating the build-out of its dedicated National Business underwriting team in the UK, Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI) has named Mark Walker as head of National Business, UK. He is currently head of Customer & Broker Engagement, UK, at BHSI, and will retain that role until a replacement is named.
Walker joined BHSI in 2019. His more than 35 years of industry experience includes leadership positions at global carriers in the UK, Latin America, the Caribbean, and Asia. He will continue to be based in Manchester, UK, and can be reached at mark.walker@bhspecialty.com.
According to his LinkedIn profile, he also held senior roles at QBE Insurance and RSA Insurance.