This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Hamilton Global Specialty and QBE European Operations.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Hamilton Global Specialty Promotes Thorp as Head of Space, Golder as Head of Treaty
Hamilton Global Specialty, an underwriting platform of Bermuda-based Hamilton Insurance Group Ltd., announced two senior underwriting appointments.
Mike Thorp has been appointed as head of Space, reporting to Sinead Cormican, deputy active underwriter, Syndicate 4000, and Chris Golder has been appointed as head of Treaty, reporting to Miles Osorio, active underwriter, Syndicate 4000.
Thorp has been at Hamilton since September 2015 and was integral to the launch of the space program in 2016 and its success over the past nine years. He has 24 years’ technical and underwriting experience in the field of space.
Golder joined the Hamilton treaty insurance team in February 2023 and has 16 years’ insurance industry experience, including a decade in underwriting.
About Hamilton Insurance Group Ltd.
Hamilton is a Bermuda-headquartered specialty insurance and reinsurance company that underwrites risks on a global basis through its wholly owned subsidiaries. Its three underwriting platforms are Hamilton Global Specialty, Hamilton Select and Hamilton Re.
QBE Europe Names Yebra as Senior U/W in Transactional Liability Team
QBE European Operations is growing its warranty and indemnity (W&I) team with the appointment of senior underwriter Francisco Castro Yebra, reflecting the company’s assertion that mergers and acquisitions (M&A) activity is picking up this year.
Based in London, Yebra will underwrite deals across the UK and Europe. He joins from managing general agent (MGA) ICEN Risk where he placed W&I policies for transactions ranging from SMEs to mega deals and covering sectors such as real estate, renewables, and technology.
Yebra is qualified both in Spain as an abogado admitted to the Vigo bar, and in England and Wales as a solicitor.
In Spain, he worked three years for the corporate and M&A department of law firm Cuatrecasas. After an LLM in International Business Law from King’s College London, he started working at Lloyd’s in 2021.
“The M&A market is recovering and I’m very excited we are growing the team with international talent, in London with Fran, and soon also in Sweden with an upcoming appointment for the Nordics,” said Toria Lessman, global head of transactional liability at QBE.
W&I insurance offers protection for unknown breaches of target and seller representations and warranties in a purchase agreement. The QBE product is particularly aimed at M&A in the sectors of consumer goods, energy, financial services, healthcare, infrastructure and utilities, media, real estate, retail and technology.
QBE European Operations is part of Australia’s QBE Insurance Group.

Topics
Liability
Europe
