Howden, the London based insurance group, announced it has acquired Hudson Sky International, a specialist aviation broker in Switzerland.
This acquisition is part of Howden’s wider strategy to become a leader in its chosen specialty markets, such as aviation, and underlines its continued investment in expertise to expand its product offering for Swiss and multinational clients.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
Hudson Sky has established itself as a leading aviation re/insurance broker in the Swiss market, with its core focus on the helicopter segment, and servicing a range of clients on a global scale. The acquisition will cement Howden’s position as a major force in the aviation sector as well as strengthening Howden’s geographic presence in Europe.
This announcement follows the news of the two new hires to the London Aviation team – Steven Crook and Wayne Hawkins – as the business drives further growth into the airline and aerospace sectors.
“For us, this acquisition was an important and strategic step for Hudson Sky as we assessed our long-term development plan in an increasingly complex global market. Our clients will benefit from Howden’s industry wide expertise, placement and networking services, in addition to the usual personal service of our experienced team,” commented Martin Accola, managing director, Hudson Sky.
“We have seen a considerable increase in demand for specialised advisory services in the aviation sphere and this acquisition is a vital step as we become market leaders in this space. Hudson Sky holds extensive sector experience, and this will be essential as we meet growing client demand in the region,” according to Hans-Jörg Blumer, managing director, Aviation, Howden Switzerland.
Felix C. Jenny, CEO, Howden Switzerland, said: “Hudson Sky will bring an additional strength to our operations in Switzerland. It reflects our commitment to providing our clients with best-in-class solutions and the combination of Hudson Sky and our existing capabilities will enhance our aviation offering significantly. This acquisition is further evidence of our commitment to becoming in the leader in our chosen markets throughout Europe and I look forward to welcoming the whole team.”
Founded in 1994, Howden operates in 50 countries across Europe, Africa, Asia, the Middle East, Latin America, the USA, Australia and New Zealand, employing 14,500 people and handling $30 billion of premium on behalf of clients.
Source: Howden

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
Aviation
