BMS, the London-based independent insurance and reinsurance broker, announced it has commenced operations in New Zealand, with the launch of BMS Risk Solutions Ltd. (BMSRS).
BMSRS is an independent, New Zealand owned and operated extension of BMS Group and has been established by highly experienced industry executives Storm McVay, Paul Meehan and David Gibbons.
“BMSRS has chosen to partner with BMS Group due to its unyielding focus on client driven outcomes. The collaboration from our Australian and UK colleagues has been exceptional and lays a solid platform for future success. Since commencing operations we have been humbled by the support of clients, and Insurers who have backed our vision and desire to establish a viable alternative to the traditional market players,” McVay commented.
BMSRS has a team of highly experienced local specialists and leaders from across the risk advisory industry, including Wayne Henderson (Aon), Brett Gerrard (Gallagher), Sue Hale (Black Peak Risk), Josh Thomson (WTW) and Dominic Sheehan (Marsh).
BMSRS said the team is set to expand significantly by the end of the year.
BMSRS has opened offices in Christchurch and Dunedin and anticipates expansion into Auckland in the new year.
BMS Group already provides wholesale broking services to a number of New Zealand corporate and institutional clients with requirements for tailored risk financing solutions including London market placements.
“We are delighted to have partnered with such highly experienced and well-regarded industry leaders in Storm McVay, Paul Meehan and David Gibbons,” commented Nick Cook, CEO of BMS Group. “BMS has had a close working relationship with them and their clients for many years so this is a natural progression as we look to broaden our global footprint.”
Launched in 1980, BMS offers comprehensive, customized solutions in the fields of wholesale, reinsurance and direct insurance, and capital advisory.