This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Price Forbes Re and AXA XL.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Price Forbes Re (PF Re) announced the appointment of Sherman Power to the newly created role of executive vice president, Alternative Risk and Capital Solutions.
Based in Dallas, Texas, he will report to Pat Rastiello, CEO Price Forbes Re, North America.
In his new role, Power will work closely with the treaty reinsurance team to provide growth capital and reserve covers in building PF Re’s reinsurance capacity for evolving and growing insurance markets. He brings almost three decades of experience in insurance and reinsurance, both in underwriting and broking, to PF Re.
Sherman joins from Aon Re, where he led the US structured solutions team and served as global head of innovation, Capital Advisory. Prior to that, he led the Regional & Large Structured Solutions team for Swiss Re US. He has also during his career held numerous senior roles and managed a variety of teams across multiple business classes.
AXA XL Promotes Kilshaw as Head of Broker Mgmt., Alternative Distribution
AXA XL has appointed Martin Kilshaw as head of Broker Management and Alternative Distribution, UK & Lloyd’s.
In this new role, Kilshaw will be responsible for driving engagement with AXA XL’s broking partners leading a team of strategic broker leaders and managers. He will also oversee AXA XL’s alternative distribution strategy, including broker facilities, and AXA XL owned, Angel Risk Management.
Kilshaw brings with him 23 years of experience, holding several senior roles including his most recent position as regional director South at AXA UK, and roles in claims and managing large corporate partnerships. He will be based in London and report to Elie Hanna, chief distribution officer, UK & Lloyd’s.
“Martin is joining us at a time of growth where we’re strengthening our leadership position in the market. With his extensive experience in distribution and relationship management, Martin will play a key role in driving our strategic goals and supporting our continued success,” commented Hanna.

Topics
Agencies
Excess Surplus
Lloyd's
Aon
AXA XL
