HSB (UK and Ireland) announced the formation of a new Commercial Division, creating closer alignment between its business development, underwriting and claims teams.
The division, headed by Terry Dyson, who has been appointed Commercial Director, will focus on delivering a more seamless service experience and an enhanced proposition to brokers, insurers and MGAs.
“Combining the expertise of these teams allows us to deepen customer relationships along the whole customer journey and marks an exciting new phase of our customer experience strategy,” commented Dyson.
“Together as the Commercial Division we are building a greater solution for our customers, which enables us to react to market challenges and deliver a sector-leading customer experience.”
The creation of the Commercial Division is part of HSB’s customer experience strategy. In 2020, HSB changed its regional service model and introduced dedicated customer segment teams focused on providing more tailored support to brokers, insurers and MGAs.
HSB (UK and Ireland), part of Munich Re, comprises a specialist insurer, HSB Engineering Insurance Ltd., and a provider of inspection and risk management services, HSB Engineering Insurance Services Ltd. HSB’s insurance offerings in the UK and Ireland include construction, equipment breakdown, cyber and computer, and energy covers. HSB blends its engineering expertise, technology and data to craft inventive insurance and service solutions for existing and emerging risks posed by technological change.
Source: HSB

Topics
Commercial Lines
Business Insurance
