NFP, a New York City-based property/casualty broker, announced it has acquired Resolute Insurance Services, an independent insurance broker based in the West Midlands.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed. NFP said the acquisition expands its commercial insurance product offerings and accelerates Resolute’s plans to provide additional solutions to clients.
Resolute offers its clients a diverse mix of products across commercial insurance. The acquisition provides Resolute and its client base with access to NFP’s global portfolio of complementary specialists and group benefits, risk, wealth, and pension solutions, leading to enhanced business support and client service.
“We’re excited to welcome the Resolute team to NFP,” said John Paul Allcock, group managing director, NFP in Europe. “We’re always open to engaging with like-minded insurance brokers and expanding our business operations by integrating firms, such as Resolute, that share our culture and values. Resolute will be a great asset to NFP as we invest in the team and their growth.”
Resolute’s senior management team will continue with NFP as key producers within the business, with David Cox remaining a managing director working closely with Allcock.
“We are excited to join the NFP family and provide our commercial clients with access to an array of new solutions and products that span beyond commercial insurance,” said David. “Our team and business will benefit from the support that comes from NFP’s wider corporate umbrella.”
Source: NFP

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
