Executive Summary: When Mark Cloutier took the helm of Aspen to return the company to profitability, he knew a vital first step would begin with its group of talented people. There were cultural challenges that needed addressing along with the reunderwriting of its portfolio. People are at the heart of a corporate turnaround.
The turnaround at Aspen Insurance Holdings—the result of a multipronged, multiyear effort—is bearing fruit with a return to consistent profits. Mark Cloutier, executive chairman and CEO, attributed Aspen’s turn of fortune to a focus on its people and hard work to reunderwrite its book.
When Cloutier joined Aspen in 2019, he knew that he and his team had to get on top of challenges including level of volatility in the company’s results, its lackluster return on equity and its lagging performance across market cycles.
“We also recognized that there were…people and cultural challenges within the business. That’s not to say there wasn’t a terrific group of people in the business,” he emphasized during an interview with Carrier Management. In fact, he recalled that when he told people in the industry that he was soon to join Aspen, he heard a common message: “We really like the people. The company has struggled, but man, you’ve got a bunch of good, talented people there.”
Still, morale had gotten low. Cloutier noted that there had been a hostile takeover attempt (by Endurance Specialty Holdings in 2014), which proved to be divisive within the management team. Then a sales process, which ultimately resulted in Apollo Global Management acquiring the business in February 2019, “was difficult and challenging,” he said.
People Key to Performance
“All of that led to a pretty dispirited group of really nice, really good people, and so we recognized we needed to put a lot of effort into our people. If we were going to turn the performance around, you can only do that through people.”
Cloutier said he took close to 50 senior leaders to an offsite meeting where they wrote a new set of six values and behaviors: 1) One Aspen team creating value; 2) Open minded; 3) Do the right thing; 4) In it together; 5) Own it; 6) Innovate.
Aspen’s 6 Values and Behaviors for Success
Aspen CEO Mark Cloutier and his team sat down to create six principles and values as an essential part of the company’s turnaround—in order to create a team that rows in the same direction with the same aspirational behaviors and end goals.
One Aspen team creating value. Creating stakeholder and reputational value while increasing social capital with both internal and external clients.
Open minded. Fostering and developing ideas and initiatives that support our pillars and our sustainability work.
Do the right thing. We do good by doing well by supporting initiatives that have impact in our global and local communities.
In it together. We develop collaborative engagement with our staff, our third sector partners and ultimately the work they do. We instill a sense of pride in current staff and build a platform to attract future talent.
Own it. We play a vital role in the success of the partners we support. We own the ability to reduce our own environmental impact.
Innovate. Through knowledge sharing and collaboration we increase our social impact. We can all do our part to make this a better world by engaging our staff in our corporate philanthropy while encouraging their own individual altruistic passions.