Ceding companies are finding that a responsive reinsurance market has materialized for the Jan. 1, 2024 renewals – a reflection of ample capacity and a commercial approach to trading partnerships, according to Guy Carpenter, the reinsurance business of Marsh McLennan.
However, reinsurers have continued with their underwriting rigor during the renewals, said a report issued by Carpenter.
Reinsurance capacity increased through year end, driven by rebounding capital in the sector and healthy reinsurer returns, estimated to be near 20% for 2023, said Guy Carpenter.
In partnership with AM Best, Carpenter estimates total dedicated reinsurance capital increased by 10%, compared with year-end 2022. Differing from past years following a major market correction, capital growth was driven by existing reinsurers with no start-up class of 2023.
“The Jan. 1 market reflected more balanced trading conditions providing cedents improved opportunities to achieve their objectives while maintaining key reinsurer relationships,” said Dean Klisura, president and CEO, Guy Carpenter, in a statement. “Technical discussions were essential to reinsurers’ increasing appetite and capacity allocations.”
Under these conditions, capacity generally ranged from adequate to ample for completion of programs across classes (where price and structure thresholds were met), including where additional demand materialized, the broker continued.
The market increased contract-level consistency on both wording and structural variations, thereby reducing non-concurrencies from the previous cycle, a signal of all parties working toward balance in a complicated market, Carpenter said.
These improvements led to a smoother Jan. 1 renewal period, compared with year-end 2022, said Carpenter, noting, however, there were still geographies and client segments that faced challenges reaching market-clearing pricing and structures.
Outcomes were dependent on loss experience and technical, data-driven insights, reflective of reinsurers’ focus on a more in-depth understanding of portfolio dynamics. While property renewals were the focus a year ago, casualty faced more scrutiny this year.
Key developments during the Jan. 1 renewals include:
— Proactive discussions early in the renewal process on subjectivities such as strike, riot and civil commotion (SRCC), terror, and cyber led to material concurrency improvements among placements.
— Global property catastrophe reinsurance risk-adjusted rate changes averaged from near-flat to single-digits up for non-loss impacted and 10%-30% up for loss-impacted programs, with a wide range of outcomes around these averages. Generally, pricing pressure was greatest at the lower ends of programs, with any risk-adjusted decreases near the upper portion of placements, reflecting the adequacy of minimum rates-on-line and sufficient capacity.
— The key to driving renewal capacity was differentiating client portfolios and ensuring actuarial assumptions reflected go-forward portfolio strategies. Additionally, it was important to demonstrate continued discipline in limit deployment, risk selection and other underwriting measures, as these efforts needed to be accounted for in renewal pricing.
Additional significant market developments highlighted by Guy Carpenter include:
Source: Guy Carpenter

Topics
Reinsurance
