QBE has announced plans to set up a branch in the Netherlands as part of its European expansion plans.
Recruitment is underway to fill a number of key roles for the Netherlands branch, across underwriting, claims, operations and finance, with a view to writing business incepting from January 2023, subject to regulatory approval.
Working solely through intermediaries, QBE initially intends to offer core commercial liability, financial lines and property coverage for mid-market to large corporates.
In addition, the Netherlands branch will have a multi-national offering which provides flexible and compliant cover for more than 180 countries.
“We have been steadily building our offering in Continental Europe, providing a credible alternative to established markets. We have the financial backing of a global enterprise but retain the agility of a smaller operation,” commented Cécile Fresneau, managing director – Insurance at QBE.
“This enables us to offer a flexible approach and new solutions to the market and has underpinned our success so far in Europe. We see great potential in the Dutch insurance market and are excited to get started,” Fresneau added.
Sebastiaan Lambalk, strategy executive for QBE Europe is leading the establishment of the Netherlands branch and overseeing the creation of the local team.
QBE said it is recruiting to fill the following roles: underwriting manager, operations manager, head of roles for property/liability/financial lines/construction and various underwriting roles. The company also is looking for a claims manager and market manager.
Source: QBE