AXIS Capital Holdings Ltd., the Bermuda-based specialty re/insurer, announced that W. Marston (Marty) Becker will succeed Henry B. Smith as non-executive chair of its Board of Directors.
Smith, who has served as chair since May of 2020, has decided to transition from the chair role and will continue to maintain a seat on the board. The transition will take place in May of 2024, timed to the company’s annual general meeting.
Becker, who joined the AXIS Board of Directors in June of 2020, has led a distinguished career in the re/insurance industry, spanning four decades. He has held numerous chair and CEO roles for publicly traded and private insurance, reinsurance, and insurance brokerage organizations in Bermuda, the United Kingdom, the United States, and Australia. He also has had leadership roles in insurance-related private equity, advisory, and investment banking.
He is the immediate past chairman of the board of QBE Insurance Group. He was appointed to the QBE board in 2013, became chair in 2014, and served until March of 2020. Prior to this, he served as chairman and CEO at Alterra Capital Ltd. and its predecessors from 2006 to 2013.
“There is no better individual to succeed me as chair of the AXIS Board of Directors than Marty Becker. Over the past four years, the company has benefited enormously from Marty’s wisdom, and deep understanding of the specialty property and casualty space,” said Smith.
“Marty brings first-hand experience leading carriers to transform their businesses while driving shareholder value creation. His guidance as chair will be integral as AXIS takes further steps forward in realizing its ambition to achieve specialty leadership.”
Becker and CEO Vincent Tizzio thanked Smith for his leadership during his four years as chair.
“It is a privilege to succeed Henry as chair, and to continue to serve with him, as we further support the significant progress that AXIS has made in elevating all aspects of its business,” said Becker.
“Our team at AXIS is deeply appreciative of Henry for his leadership as chair and continued service on our board. Moreover, I have tremendous gratitude for Henry’s support and counsel as I transitioned into the CEO role,” said Tizzio. “I look forward to working closely with Marty in his new capacity, and our leadership team will profit significantly from his counsel and expansive knowledge of our industry.”
Source: AXIS Capital Holdings