This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Gallagher Re, Aon and Howden M&A.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Gallagher Re Names Aon’s Bowen as Chief Science Officer
Gallagher Re, the global reinsurance broker, announced it has appointed Steve Bowen to the newly created position of chief science officer within Global Analytics & Advisory.
Based in Chicago and with a global role, Bowen will also work closely with the new Gallagher Research Centre – launched last week – Global Catastrophe Analytics, and the Climate and ESG teams and will join the business on Oct. 3, 2022.
With a scientific background in meteorology and business analytics, Bowen began his career in broadcast television before transitioning his skills into the insurance industry in 2007. He joins following 15 years at Aon, where he most recently served as managing director and the head of Catastrophe Insight, for the broker’s Impact Forecasting team. A frequent collaborator with governmental agencies, academia and industry groups, Bowen is highly respected and well-known across the risk and insurance spectrum as an expert in his field and has co-authored several peer-reviewed journals.
“Steve’s addition to our team of practical, solutions-oriented, data-led specialists ensures Gallagher Re’s clients and the public at large get objective, fact-based assessments of the evolving risks arising from climate change,” commented Brian Ingle, president of Global Analytics & Advisory, Gallagher Re.
“With the world’s risk horizon looking increasingly turbulent, Gallagher Re is fully provisioned to help our clients successfully navigate the future. We are excited to welcome Steve aboard.”
“We live in a solutions-driven world. The growing and broad-reaching impacts of climate change and natural hazards are becoming more evident by the day, and there is a critical need to innovate and clearly communicate how risk is evolving. I am thrilled to be joining the Gallagher Re family where there is a strong commitment to collectively work together to help clients better understand their view of risk,” said Bowen.
“We will strive to help move the climate change conversation forward by collaborating with various private and public sector entities to develop and deliver applicable thought leadership. It is an exciting time to be a scientist in the insurance industry,” he added.
The Global Analytics & Advisory centre of excellence works collaboratively with thought leaders across Gallagher Re to develop and strengthen intellectual property to meet the future needs of clients, ensure they experience the best of the broker’s collective capabilities and share best practices across its regional businesses.
Aon Names Jursa CEO of Commercial Risk Solutions, Czech Republic
Aon plc, a leading global professional services firm, announced it has named Michal Jursa CEO of Commercial Risk Solutions in Czech Republic
Jursa has more than 20 years of experience in business and management positions in the field of corporate banking and financial services, where he held various positions at companies including ING Bank N.V., Komerční banka a.s. and Wood & Co. Financial Services a.s. For the last 13 years, he has held various managerial positions at UniCredit. Most recently, Jursa was executive director and managing director of UniCredit Fleet Management, s.r.o., Czech Republic and Slovakia.
“We are pleased to welcome Michal to Aon,” said Vlad Bobko, CEO of Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East for Aon’s Commercial Risk Solutions. “With more than 13 years of leadership experience, he brings a strong focus on colleagues and clients and a successful track record in business development. Michal’s strategic expertise will be a great addition to our team as we continue to help clients make better decisions in an increasingly complex and interconnected world.”
Jursa holds an MBA in general management from the City University of Seattle.
Gridel Joins Howden M&A to Lead European Biz Development
Howden M&A, the international M&A and structured solutions insurance broker, announced the appointment of Charles-Henri Gridel as associate director, Business Development Europe. Gridel brings with him more than 20 years of experience in the professional services sector, with his appointment reflective of Howden M&A’s commitment to expand its European platform.
Gridel will lead the Business Development function across Continental Europe, building Howden M&A’s brand profile with investment funds, lawyers, M&A bankers, corporates and the financial services industry. He will be also responsible for developing the portfolio of clients for M&A insurance solutions, including warranty and indemnity, title and real estate risks, tax risks and structuring, environmental issues and contingent risks.
Gridel will join Howden M&A in September of this year.
Gridel began his career in marketing at BNP Paribas before joining the leading international law firm Gide as part of the Business Development team, holding positions in Paris and Shanghai during his tenure. Most recently Gridel was head of Business Development for Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) at Herbert Smith Freehills and a member of the firm’s EMEA Executive Committee.
A graduate of the EM Lyon School of Management, Gridel holds a Master’s Degree in Law from Pantheon Assas University.
Gridel’s onboarding marks another significant senior hire for Howden in France, following the appointment of Nicolas Aubert as CEO of France earlier this year.
“Charles-Henri’s appointment reinforces our commitment to the French M&A market and our continued ambition to strengthen Howden’s position in Europe. We are delighted to have Charles-Henri on board and welcome the on-the-ground, local support he will provide as part of our development strategy for the region,” commented Lucie Bocel, co-head, Howden M&A, France.
Drew Wardrope, managing director, Howden M&A, said: “Charles-Henri’s appointment is reflective of Howden M&A’s broader strategy to invest in talent and expertise. His proven track record and experience of business development in the professional services sector will make him an invaluable addition to our growing M&A insurance team in Paris.”
Howden M&A is part of HowdenCAP, the new capital, advisory and placement business providing solutions at the convergence of the insurance and capital markets space to corporate clients, investors and all non-(re)insurance industry clients in the financial services sector. They are all part of Howden Broking.

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Commercial Lines
Business Insurance
Europe
Aon
A.J. Gallagher
