Everest Names Mulray President of North America Insurance
Everest Re Group Ltd., the Bermuda-based property/casualty, and specialty re/insurer, announced the appointment of Mike Mulray as executive vice president and president of North America Insurance, effective immediately.
Mulray most recently served as global chief operating officer for Everest Insurance, and in his new role, will lead all aspects of North America, the Insurance division’s largest portfolio. He reports to Mike Karmilowicz, president and CEO of Everest Insurance.
Mulray has more than 25 years of insurance leadership experience. Since joining Everest in 2015 as chief underwriting officer, he has played a critical role in shaping, scaling, and transforming Everest’s Insurance strategy. He also led several of the Insurance division’s key functional areas, including Actuarial Pricing & Modeling, Business Performance Management & Analytics, Corporate Underwriting, Risk & Ceded Reinsurance, Operations, and eIQ, Everest’s innovation team. Mulray is a member of the Everest Executive Leadership Committee.
“Mike has served in various leadership roles at Everest, has been instrumental to our success, and is a strong advocate for our inclusive culture. I look forward to working closely with him in his new role, as we deepen our North America presence and advance our position as a global, diversified, world-class insurer,” commented Karmilowicz.
Swiss Re Names Aon’s Quiroga Arias as Head Risk Consulting & Analytics
Swiss Re announced the appointment of Paloma Quiroga Arias as head Risk Consulting & Analytics, reporting to Russell Higginbotham, CEO Reinsurance Solutions. The appointment is effective April 17, 2023.
Quiroga Arias will lead a team with proven risk expertise and deep global data and insight. She joins Swiss Re from Aon Reinsurance Solutions, where she was the global head of Articulating Value, part of the Reinsurance Global Growth Leadership Team. Prior to this, she held a variety of roles at Aon Inpoint. She worked at Aon for nearly 10 years.
Quiroga Arias obtained a doctorate in Theoretical Physics, from the University of Santiago de Compostela, Spain, and CERN.
“We’re very excited to have Paloma on board. She will play a crucial role in leading our risk consulting & analytics business forward – working closely with our clients to develop the right solution for their needs,” commented Russell Higginbotham, CEO Reinsurance Solutions.

Topics
Aon
Swiss Re
