Aspen Appoints Boon as Head of Singapore; Morely Relocates to London
Aspen Insurance Holdings Limited has appointed industry veteran Tay Boon Chuan as head of Singapore, effective June 1. Aspen is headquartered in Hamilton, Bermuda.
Boon joins Aspen after 12 years at Tokio Marine Kiln as part of their property treaty reinsurance team, most recently as Asia treaty team lead. He has over 23 years of experience in the Asian (re)insurance industry, having held positions at Asia Capital Re Group and Swiss Re.
Also, as of August 1, Beatrice Morley will relocate to the London, England, office and remain global head of casualty and head of international reinsurance.
Liberty Mutual Appoints Patrick Thielen Global Head of Cyber
Liberty Specialty Markets named Patrick Thielen global head of cyber to lead the development and execution of a cyber strategy to help brokers and buyers across the globe better manage cyber exposure.
Thielen reports to GRS Insurance Solutions President Elizabeth Geary.
Prior to joining Liberty Mutual, Thielen was senior vice president, Tech E&O, and cyber insurance product lead at Chubb. He previously held various strategic and technical positions at Travelers.
GRS also announced the promotion of Jelmer Andela to the newly created role of head of cyber underwriting for Liberty Specialty Markets (LSM), its London-based specialty insurer. Andela is responsible for leading execution of GRS’ global cyber strategy across LSM, building a single view of cyber for that operation, and being a trusted advisor to its regional chief underwriting officers. He will report to Thielen and LSM CUO Rachel Conran.
Guy Carpenter Makes Senior Appointments in Europe
Guy Carpenter, a business of Marsh McLennan, has made several senior appointments to its European teams.
Anders Nises has been named CEO of the Nordics region. Effective in the second half of this year, Nises will be based in Stockholm, Sweden. Nises joins Guy Carpenter from Hannover Re in Stockholm, where he is general manager for its P&C business. Nises previously held various senior positions at Swedish insurance company Länsförsäkringar, including group manager, reinsurance.
Lisa Ljunggren has been named head of analytics, Nordics, beginning in June. She will be based in Stockholm. Ljunggren has held several senior analytics and underwriting roles, including with RMS, Willis Re, Nephila and Tokio Marine, before joining SiriusPoint in 2016.
Enver Karapinar has been named head of facultative, Europe. He joined Guy Carpenter in 2019 and most recently was head of facultative for Germany, Austria and Switzerland. He is based in Hamburg, Germany.
Riccardo Roveta has been named head of facultative, Europe, London branch. He is based in London, England. He has more than 22 years of experience and joined Guy Carpenter’s facultative team in 2015, specializing in casualty, specialty and financial lines.

Topics
Cyber
Europe
