Fidelis Insurance Holdings Ltd. (FIHL) announced the completion of the transaction creating a new managing general underwriter (Fidelis MGU), separate from FIHL and the existing insurance companies (the Fidelis Insurance Group).
Originally announced in July 2022, the transaction became effective on Jan. 3, 2023. Both FIHL and Fidelis MGU have received approvals or non-objections from the Bermuda, UK, Irish and Belgian regulators.
The Fidelis MGU will be located at Waterloo House in Bermuda, 22 Bishopsgate in London, and the Station Building II in Dublin. The Fidelis MGU executive committee consists of:
The Fidelis Insurance Group will be located at Waterloo House in Bermuda, 22 Bishopsgate in London and the Station Building II in Dublin. The Fidelis Insurance Group’s executive team consists of:
The Fidelis MGU’s principal equity investors are Capital Z Partners, The Travelers Cos. Inc., Blackstone, Further Global Capital Management and Alfa Insurance. In addition, Blackstone is leading the debt financing to the Fidelis MGU, with Oak Hill Advisors (OHA) and Barings also participating in the debt and providing equity.
Fidelis Receives Regulatory Nod to Create New MGU, Split Business
The Fidelis Insurance Group capital structure will remain unchanged, as will its investors, apart from the purchase of a 9.9% stake in Fidelis Insurance Group by the Fidelis MGU from existing shareholders, creating additional alignment.
Richard Brindle and the Fidelis MGU team retain significant personal stakes in the Fidelis Insurance Group as well as being significant shareholders in Fidelis MGU.
“We are delighted to announce the completion of this intelligent and ground-breaking transaction. It has been an extraordinary effort by both entities, supported by outstanding advisors. We really believe this positions us to be leaders in an exciting market today and for the long term,” commented Brindle.
“The MGU can now focus on the core competencies in underwriting, claims handling, reinsurance structuring and, above all, innovation of new products, supported by our market leading proprietary technology tools.”
“The new structure and partnership between Fidelis Insurance Group and Fidelis MGU will be highly beneficial to all stakeholders and provides an evolved capital, risk and distribution model,” said Burrows.
This transaction was advised by Evercore Partners International LLP, Kinmont, Willkie Farr & Gallagher (UK) LLP and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Each management team was advised on this transaction by Mishcon de Reya LLP and BDO LLP. Capital Z Partners, The Travelers Cos. Inc. and Further Global Capital Management were advised on this transaction by Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP. Blackstone, OHA and Barings were advised on this transaction by White & Case LLP and Freshfields LLP.
Source: Fidelis
Related:

Topics
Insurance Wholesale
