SCOR’s Board of Directors, which met on June 25, 2023, has unanimously decided to appoint Fabrice Brégier as non-executive chairman, with immediate effect.
This decision was made on the unanimous recommendation of the Nomination Committee, at the conclusion of a rigorous succession process which was initiated in the spring of 2022, the board said in a statement.
Over the months since the process began, the Nomination Committee, assisted by the international recruitment firm Egon Zehnder, has met on numerous occasions to define the search criteria for the future chairman, to select first-rate individuals who could match the expected profile, and finally to meet the candidates most likely to take the helm of the board, the board added.
The committee, chaired by Adrien Couret, ultimately chose Brégier, who has been a SCOR director since 2019 and who, in the committee’s view, possesses all the qualities necessary to chair the board, the board went on to say.
A French citizen born in 1961, Brégier is a graduate of École Polytechnique and a chief engineer of the Corps des mines. He began his career in 1986 at the Ministry of Industry and Trade, before being appointed sub-director at the Ministry of Agriculture (directorate-general for Food) in 1989. After serving as an adviser to several French ministers from 1991 to 1993, Brégier joined Matra Défense and became chief executive officer of MBD/MBDA in 1998.
He was then chairman and chief executive officer of Eurocopter from 2003 to 2006, before joining Airbus (commercial aircraft) as COO at the end of 2006 and then serving as chief executive officer from 2012 to 2018. Brégier has been chairman of Palantir France since October 2018. He joined SCOR’s Board of Directors in 2019.
“The Board of Directors is delighted with the choice of Fabrice Brégier, who has made a significant contribution to the work of the board and its committees since 2019,” commented SCOR’s directors in a statement.
“His wealth of experience at the head of major international groups and his in-depth knowledge of corporate governance are solid assets for SCOR, as the group gains fresh momentum. He and Thierry Léger [SCOR’s CEO] will complement each other perfectly, supporting SCOR’s development at a particularly favorable time for the reinsurance industry,” the board continued.
Brégier succeeds Denis Kessler, 71, non-executive chairman of SCOR and the reinsurer’s former chief executive, who died on June 9.
“I am pleased and honored to have been entrusted with this important responsibility, as we open a new chapter in the company’s history,” said Brégier.
“My thoughts are with Denis Kessler, who did so much to make SCOR a leading global reinsurer. His memory will compel and drive us to constantly strive for excellence, a value he held dear. Thierry Léger can count on my full support in drawing up the roadmap that will give the group its new strategic impetus. SCOR is already well placed to seize all current and future market opportunities,” he added.
Source: SCOR

Topics
Reinsurance
