A global tech outage that appeared to be related to issues at cybersecurity firm CrowdStrike and Microsoft on Friday affected operations in sectors including airports, airlines, media and banks.
Below is a list of disruptions that have been reported:
AIRLINES, AIRPORTS
Airports and airlines around the globe have warned of delays and cancellations or switched to manual check-in, with some halting flights.
– Berlin airport temporarily halted all flights, a spokesperson told Reuters. Lufthansa’s Eurowings said it was halting domestic German flights as well as flights to and from Britain until 3 p.m. (1300 GMT).
Global Cyber Outage Grounds Flights, Hits Banks, Telecoms, Media
– Spanish airport operator Aena reported a computer systems incident while Lisbon airport, Portugal’s biggest, also experienced disruption. Amsterdam’s Schiphol Airport restarted services after its operations were affected. Dubai airport was operating normally again after the outage affected check-ins for some airlines, its operator said.
– Top Dutch airline KLM said it could not handle flights on Friday and that it had suspended most of its operations. Air France, KLM’s parent company, said its operations were disrupted.
– Turkish Airlines is experiencing problems with ticketing, check-in, and booking, it said in a post on X. Budapest Airport said several airline check-in systems were out of operation.
– Major U.S. carriers including American Airlines, Delta Airlines and United Airlines flights on Friday morning citing communication issues. American Airlines later said it had re-established operations. Frontier and Spirit too canceled directives to ground planes.
– An SAS spokesperson said the Scandinavian airline was expecting delays. Australia’s national airline Qantas and Sydney airport said planes were delayed but still flying.
– Swiss air traffic control company Skyguide temporarily reduced Swiss air traffic capacity by 30%.
– Indian airlines, including SpiceJet, Indigo, Akasa Air, Vistara, Air India and Air India Express were also facing issues on Friday.
– Panama’s Copa Airlines said its operating systems were experiencing difficulties.
FINANCIALS
– Australia’s largest bank, Commonwealth Bank, said earlier issues affecting PayID instant transfers had been resolved. Services including Netbank, the CommBank app, CommBiz, merchant payments and ATMs are available.
– Several major oil and gas trading desks in London and Singapore were struggling to execute trades, six industry sources told Reuters.
– Macquarie Capital was unable to provide liquidity for unexpired warrants on HKEX.
– South Africa’s Capitec said card payments, ATM and app services were fully restored following significant nationwide disruptions.
– LSEG Group’s Workspace news and data platform suffered an outage that affected user access worldwide, causing disruption across financial markets. It later said data and services were back up and running again.
– Some brokerages in India faced technical difficulties, traders at the brokerages told Reuters.
– German insurer Allianz said it was experiencing a major outage that was impacting employees’ ability to log on to their computers.
– Some German banks were facing disruptions, a spokesperson for the Deutsche Kreditwirtschaft financial industry association, said on Friday, without providing further details.
– Barclays said its digital investing platform Smart Investor was impacted.
– Brazilian lender Bradesco said its digital platforms were unavailable on Friday.
MEDIA
– Britain’s Sky News resumed broadcasting after an hours-long outage, but operating at minimal capacity and without many of its usual services.
– Australia’s state broadcaster ABC said it was experiencing a “major network outage,” without giving a reason.
– Regular programming at Sky News Australia was disrupted.
EMERGENCY SERVICES, HEALTHCARE
– England’s National Health Service (NHS) said bookings of doctors’ appointments and patient records were disrupted, but emergency services had not been affected.
– Several hospitals in the Netherlands had to scale down their operations, Dutch press agency ANP reported.
– Victorian state police in Australia said some internal systems had been hit but emergency services were operating normally.
– Copenhagen’s fire department said on X it was experiencing problems receiving automatically transmitted fire alarms, and urged people to call 112 in case of a fire.
– Two hospitals in the northern German cities of Luebeck and Kiel canceled elective operations scheduled for Friday.
OTHER
– Critical infrastructure in Germany has been affected, an interior ministry spokesperson said.
– New Zealand’s parliamentary computer systems were affected, according to Rafael Gonzalez-Montero, head of the parliamentary service.
– Australia’s Telstra Group was facing disruptions to some of its systems, a spokesperson for the telecom firm told Reuters.
– The Baltic Hub container terminal in the Polish city of Gdansk said it was hit by the global outage and was working to solve the issue.
– The Paris Olympics organizing committee said the outage was slowing its operations, but the impact was limited, and ticket sales were unaffected.
– The United Arab Emirates foreign ministry said its electronic systems were functioning normally again.
– Maruti Suzuki, India’s largest carmaker, said it briefly halted production and despatch operations. It has resumed operations and does not expect any material impact from the incident.
– FedEx Corp. said it faced substantial disruptions throughout its networks due to the outage.
– Italy’s biggest utility Enel said there were “malfunctions and slowdowns” in its online customer services.
– Dominion Energy said customer service call centers had been impacted by the outage.
(Reporting by Reuters bureaus; Compiled by Anna Pruchnicka, Andrey Sychev; Editing by Emelia Sithole-Matarise, Kirsten Donovan and Mark Potter)

Topics
InsurTech
Tech
