Acies MGU, the London-based managing general underwriter and MGA incubator, announced the launch of Phoenix Specialty, a specialist MGA serving the construction sector.
Phoenix will be led by managing director Tim James, subject to regulatory approval. James led the successful development, growth and subsequent sale of Ensurance, a specialist construction and engineering MGA. Prior to that, he spent 16 years in senior and board-level roles at HSB.
James is joined by senior construction underwriter Milan Kosorin, who was previously the senior underwriter, energy and construction at Allianz. Prior to that, he was senior underwriter, engineering, at Generali Global Corporate and Commercial, and he spent nearly 10 years at AXA corporate solutions in various global construction underwriting roles.
The team is completed by experienced construction underwriters Cameron Mclean, Elyse Gateson and Chantell Wilson.
Phoenix has capacity backing from AXA UK as it launches with contractors all risks and contractors plant & equipment products, with further specialist products in the pipeline.
“Our mission at Phoenix Specialty is to establish a reputable global construction MGA by leveraging a dedicated team of highly experienced technical underwriters to deliver exceptional service,” said James. “Our immediate priority is to establish a strong presence in the UK market before expanding our footprint internationally to meet the unique challenges faced by the construction industry.”
“This launch marks an exciting new milestone for Acies MGU as we continue to build out our portfolio of highly specialised MGAs which also includes Acies SME and Intangic MGA,” commented Mark Heath, the CEO of Acies MGU.
Source: Acies MGU

Topics
Excess Surplus
New Markets
Insurance Wholesale
Construction
AXA XL
