Zurich Insurance Group reported net income attributable to shareholders of $4.6 billion in 2022, a 12% decrease from $5.2 billion in 2021, which was driven mainly by a lower level of capital gains, net losses on divestment of businesses and hyperinflation charges related to the Latin American business.
Nevertheless, Zurich had its highest business operating profit (BOP) since 2007, reporting US$6.5 billion for full-year 2022, an increase of 12% from US$5.7 billion in 2021. The company also exceeded its financial targets for the second consecutive three-year period. (BOP is the group’s internal performance measure, which determines underlying performance by eliminating the impact of financial market volatility and other non-operational variables).
Lower catastrophe and weather-related claims were partially offset by the inflationary environment experienced within the retail and SME business in the second half of 2022, in particular in motor, while commercial insurance continued to benefit from higher earned rate and margin expansion, Zurich said in a statement.
“These were tough years with unexpected challenges during which we had to stay very agile and focused on our goals. We continued to execute our strategy with strong discipline and successfully drove our results to deliver the targets,” according to Group Chief Executive Officer Mario Greco.
Zurich’s property/casualty business segment reported “an excellent combined ratio at 94.3% and record premium levels,” Greco said during an analysts’ call to discuss the earnings. Last year’s combined ratio was level with 2021. (A combined ratio below 100 indicates underwriting profits).
In U.S. dollars, the group’s P&C gross written premiums rose to $42.3 billion, an 8% increase from $40.1 billion in 2021 (or a 14% hike on a like-for-like basis, adjusting for currency movements).
Greco said strong growth was achieved in both commercial insurance and retail businesses. “Higher risk-adjusted prices in commercial insurance and continued measured progress towards our growth ambitions took P&C gross written premiums to a record level,” he said.
“While we expect rate increases in commercial insurance to moderate from the 8% seen in 2022, we expect to see further margin expansion in 2023,” he added.
Greco said the company continues to focus on customers, which is reflected in the fact that customer retention rate is up 2 percentage points to 82%, with more than 2.1 million net new customers added during 2022.
As a result of its strong BOP and the company’s strong capital position, Zurich proposed a dividend increase of 9% to 24 Swiss francs per share from 22 francs.
The Group’s Swiss Solvency Test (SST) ratio was estimated at 265%, well above the group’s target for an SST ratio of 160% or higher.
A research note issued by Berenberg Capial Markets suggested that Zurich’s strong solvency position would allow the company to fund more acquisitions.
“In 2023 Zurich is set to close the German life back book deal, which we estimate will add 5ppt to solvency, while retained earnings should add another 8ppt. This means we estimate Zurich could fund a $8 billion-$9 billion insurance acquisition and keep solvency above 220%,” Berenberg said. (Zurich announced in June 2022 that it has agreed to sell its legacy traditional life insurance back book in Germany to Viridium Holding AG, a specialist in the management of life insurance portfolios in Germany).
“We have a very strong balance sheet, so that allows us to look at opportunities that might make sense for us. If they make sense, we’ve got the capacity to pursue them,” according to Chief Financial Officer George Quinn during a media briefing to discuss the results. He declined to discuss any specific M&A opportunity at this stage.

Topics
Profit Loss
