Six ships linked to the US and UK have successfully transited the area without coming under attack since Jan. 19, when the Houthis said they would stop targeting vessels associated with those countries, according to the Joint Maritime Information Center, which collates information on the militants’ attacks from multiple navies.
“JMIC assesses that as the peace agreement progresses and vessels and infrastructure remain untargeted, improved stability is expected; however, the risk in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden remain elevated,” it said in a report this week.
Houthis Say US and UK Ships Can Safely Take Red Sea Passage
The Houthis announced the partial halt to attacks in response to a ceasefire agreement between Israel and Hamas in Gaza, following a more than yearlong campaign that disrupted global trade. The group said UK and US-linked ships would be allowed to pass from Jan. 19. Vessels wholly owned by Israeli citizens or companies, or sailing under the Israeli flag, remain banned.
If the safe passage holds it could give other shipping companies that continue to avoid the Red Sea confidence to return. Industry giants like Denmark’s A.P. Moller-Maersk A/S, Switzerland’s MSC Mediterranean Shipping Co. SA and Japan’s Mitsui OSK Lines Ltd. have all said they wouldn’t immediately resume transits despite the assurances, citing lingering uncertainty around security.
The attacks have forced many vessels to take the longer route around Africa to avoid the Red Sea, extending journey times and adding to shipping costs.
Photograph: The bulk carrier, Lila II, seen at sea on Jan. 17, 2024 in Djibouti, Djibouti. Photo credit: Luke Dray/Getty Images Europe

Topics
USA
