NFP, the New York City-based property/casualty insurance broker and consultant, announced it has acquired Mason James Insurance Services Ltd. (doing business as Bentley Insurance Services), one of the largest brokers in Staffordshire, England.
Launched in 1922, Bentley specializes in providing bespoke insurance solutions for private cars (including high performance and high value vehicles), household insurance, commercial insurance, industrial insurance, self-employed tradespeople and liability.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
Mike Rostron, managing director at Bentley, will join NFP’s commercial insurance leadership team in the UK and continue to drive company growth across Staffordshire and beyond.
“Bentley Insurance Services has a longstanding presence in Staffordshire, a great reputation, strong leadership and well-earned trust in the region, making them a perfect partner for NFP,” said John Paul Allcock, UK and Ireland managing director at NFP.
The acquisition allows NFP “to offer services to businesses in the Midlands that more effectively meet the challenges our clients face today,” Allcock added.
Bentley will maintain its local office presence in Staffordshire (in Leek, England), and all existing Bentley customers will continue to be advised and managed by their current broker in the same way they always have. Through NFP, clients will also have full access to enhanced products and a broader range of solutions designed for their specific needs.
“We’re excited to join the NFP family and collaborate with colleagues that share our commitment to providing client-centric solutions and maintaining a people-first work culture,” said Rostron. “This incredible opportunity also allows us to offer our clients access to NFP’s broad network of integrated insurance, benefits, wealth management and retirement solutions.”
With more than 7,000 global employees, NFP is the seventh largest U.S.-based privately owned broker.
Source: NFP Corp.

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
