This edition of International People Moves details appointments at the Everest Reinsurance and the broker Miller.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Everest Reinsurance, the reinsurance division of Bermuda-based Everest Group Ltd., announced that Emily Davis has been named head of its Global Specialties business, which includes aviation, marine, cyber, engineering, and parametric solutions.
She will report to Jill Beggs, reinsurance executive vice president and chief operating officer.
Davis most recently was Everest Reinsurance’s vice president and global head of Engineering. Prior to Everest, she held global actuarial and underwriting roles of increasing responsibility at Transatlantic Reinsurance Co. in construction, downstream energy, and property, building strong broker and client relationships across lines of business and territories. Davis began her career as an Actuarial Analyst at Aon and is a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries.
“Emily has been instrumental in the development and growth of Everest’s dedicated Global Specialties business, which has expanded alongside increasing market demand since its launch earlier this year,” said Beggs. “Emily’s demonstrated leadership, collaborative approach, and proven success in building a market-leading portfolio make her ideal to lead our talented teams and offerings into the future, ensuring that our customized solutions are readily accessible to our clients with the protection they need to navigate new and emerging risks.”
Miller Appoints Armitage and Gorman for Professional & Financial Lines Team
Miller, the London-based independent specialist re/insurance broker, announced the appointments of Amanda Armitage and Scott Gorman to support its growth in Professional & Financial Lines.
Armitage joins as business development manager in Miller’s International Professions Team and Gorman is leading the UK and International PI Wholesale team.
Armitage brings over 15 years’ experience in the insurance industry and now has a specialist focus on professional indemnity, having worked in both broking and relationship management roles.
She joins from PIB Insurance Brokers where she was a development director, working to identify new business opportunities across a range of sectors including renewables, healthcare, logistics, property and construction.
Gorman joins from Price Forbes (previously MGB Insurance Brokers) where he led the firm’s new business division, specializing in professional indemnity insurance. Prior to this, he worked as an underwriter for a Lloyd’s coverholder/MGA, as well as within Towergate’s Financial Risks (TUFR) team.
In his new position, Gorman will focus on building out Miller’s wholesale offering to brokers across the UK, the Republic of Ireland and Australia, as well as territories that require the assistance of a London based broker for specialist products.
“Scott has deep experience within the PI market and will be a significant asset to the team as we continue to bolster both our retail and wholesale offering,” commented Tim Jackson, head of PI Major Risks, at Miller.
“As conditions in the PI market shift, we are fortunate to have a wealth of diverse experience on board to action our growth strategy and continue to provide the best possible service and advice to our clients,” Jackson said.
“Amanda’s appointment is testament to our ability to attract respected talent from across the industry and we are delighted that she is now part of our growing team. Her diverse and excellent understanding across a variety of sectors and insurance classes means our offering to UK professions will enhance and improve Miller’s growth prospects within the territory,” according to Taurai Ushe, head of New Business Development in Miller’s UK Professions team.

Topics
Reinsurance
