Jensten, the London-based independent insurance broking group, announced the acquisition of Henry Seymour & Co.
The deal, which is subject to regulatory approval, will introduce to the business a team of 22 professionals, an office located in Sutton, England, as well as an additional 66,000 policyholders. Financial details of the transaction were not disclosed.
Catering to the unique needs of salons, clinics, gyms, spas, and mobile or freelance therapists under its long-established Salon Gold brand, Henry Seymour & Co. holds the mantle as the market leader in insurance within the hair and beauty industry, Jensten said. In addition, through its Tradesman Saver brand, the business also is a specialist in the trade and construction sector.
This acquisition demonstrates Jensten’s commitment to growing its schemes and affinities capability, while also supporting a multi-channel distribution model across retail, digital, and wholesale, throughout its schemes and affinities business.
Joint Managing Directors Darragh Timlin and Dean Laming at Henry Seymour & Co. will continue to lead the business, reporting to Simon Henderson, managing director – Schemes and Affinities at Jensten Insurance Brokers.
“We are delighted to join the Jensten family and feel that both the strategic and cultural objectives are aligned. I have known Simon for many years and feel excited about the ambition and future of the business going forwards,” commented Paul Kaye, founder, and owner of Henry Seymour.
“We wanted to join a group where our specialisms, staff and expertise would be valued, and where we’d be supported to continue growing the business and delivering for both our clients and partners. Jensten was an obvious choice for us, and we are looking forward to the growth opportunities this relationship will provide both for our people and our customers,” according to Darragh Timlin, joint MD, Henry Seymour.
“We are delighted to announce our latest addition to the Jensten business. This acquisition is a significant stride in our schemes and affinities growth, enhancing our capacity to offer market-leading digital propositions and specialist support to a diverse range of clients with niche requirements,” said Simon Henderson, MD – Schemes and Affinities, Jensten Insurance Brokers.
“Welcoming the team from Henry Seymour & Co is a key milestone in our commitment to strengthening the level of service and expertise within Jensten,” said Henderson. “This announcement is further proof of our ability to source and attract great quality businesses and bring them into the Jensten environment, where they can flourish.”
Jensten launched in 2018. Through its four divisions – retail broking, Coversure broker network, Jensten Underwriting and Jensten London Markets – the group provides tailored insurance solutions to a wide range of customers, either directly or via independent brokers. The group is a top 10 independent broker and now places in excess of £500 million GWP into the market. Jensten employs over 800 people across 35 locations, and partners with 95 entrepreneurial franchise holders.
Source: Jensten

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
