Lockton, the world’s largest independent insurance broker, announced it has signed a long-term strategic agreement with Jhasa, a Spanish independent insurance and reinsurance broker that specializes in the construction, energy and M&A sectors.
Following this agreement, effective immediately, Jhasa will become the partner for Lockton’s Global Commercial Insurance and People Solutions business in Spain.
The partnership will form a central pillar of Lockton and Jhasa’s growth and investment strategies in Spain, strengthening their collective opportunities. Jhasa will support Lockton’s existing clients and provide Lockton with access to Jhasa’s team of specialists. It will also further enhance Lockton’s service and capabilities to global clients.
In parallel, this agreement will provide Jhasa’s clients, globally, with access to Lockton’s full product suite and risk management expertise, with Jhasa becoming a partner in the Lockton Global Partnership.
Founded in 2019, Jhasa has grown rapidly to become a market leader in its chosen classes, firmly establishing itself as an independent broker of choice in Spain, with a client base which boasts some of the country’s leading enterprises and the confidence of the largest insurers in the country.
“The business which Juan Sanchez, Juan Hurtado and their team have built is exceptional. They have an unrelenting focus on client service, underpinned by a recognition and commitment to independence and the benefits which this affords them,” commented EJ Hentenaar, European chief executive officer of Lockton.
“Their approach has seen them rapidly become the broker to watch in Spain, with an enviable client base that is enabling them to expand to support Spanish businesses internationally. We could not ask for a better partner for our business in Spain and have been in discussion with them for some time about how we can formalize the clear alignment in our culture and values,” Hentenaar added.
“Jhasa is an ideal partner, the team is entrepreneurial, agile and the expertise across their business is impressive. Making this partnership a reality has been a shared goal for some time,” according to Chris Brown, chairman Lockton Global Partners.
“I am certain that the combination of Lockton’s global footprint and broad product suite will provide Jhasa with the firepower to realise its ambitions, while its second-to-none market relationships will enable us to fast track our growth plans for Spain and for Spanish interests abroad. We look forward to welcoming them to the Lockton Global Partnership,” Brown continued.
Juan Hurtado de Amézaga and Juan Sánchez de Amoraga, co-founders of Jhasa, said:
“When we launched Jhasa, our goal was to become one of the leading independent brokers in Spain, looking after large Spanish corporate clients, who were seeking more than a standard transactional broker. This strategic partnership is a very big step in making that goal a reality. Lockton will provide us with additional expertise, global capabilities, enhanced products, and a new team of associates who we know share our approach to client service. It is a win for Jhasa, Lockton and for businesses across Spain which are pursuing their own international ambitions.”
Launched in 2019 and with 100% Spanish capital, Jhasa’s team of more than 40 employees has extensive experience in the sector. The company is headquartered in Madrid and operates at a national and international level.
Source: Lockton

Topics
Agencies
Reinsurance
