Ardonagh Advisory Holdings Ltd, a subsidiary of The Ardonagh Group, announced it has acquired The Professional Broking Group Ltd., which trades as The Professional Indemnity Co.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
Based in Chester, England, and established in 2005, The Professional Indemnity Co. specializes in professional indemnity (PI) insurance for all professions, including solicitors, architects, surveyors, engineers and accountancy firms.
The business, which will continue to be led by Managing Director Scott Harrison, has a gross written premium in excess of £20 million ($24.6 million).
The Professional Indemnity Co. will operate as part of the wider Ardonagh Advisory platform which includes regional PI broker Alice Castle and Lloyd’s PI broker Hera Indemnity, as well as Bravo Networks, Ethos Broking and Towergate Insurance Brokers.
“The Professional Indemnity Company has a well-earned reputation as a market-leading specialist, providing hands-on, customer-focused support to its clients, in addition to exceptionally broad market access,” commented Rob Worrell, CEO of Ardonagh Advisory.
“The Ardonagh Group has been on an impressive growth trajectory over the past few years and is a business that we know can support our own ambitions for the future and help us further enhance what is already a client-focused, service-driven business,” said Scott Harrison, managing director of The Professional Indemnity Co.
About Ardonagh Advisory
Ardonagh Advisory Holdings Ltd. is The Ardonagh Group’s SME broking platform. comprised of Bravo Networks, Ethos Broking, Footman James, Hera Indemnity, Towergate, Towergate Health & Protection, Thompson & Bryan, Compass UK and Usay Compare brands.
Source: Ardonagh Advisory Holdings

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
