This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Peak Re and CNA Hardy.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Hong Kong Reinsurer Peak Re Appoints Nowakowski as CUO
Peak Re, a Hong Kong-based global reinsurer, announced the appointment of Piotr Nowakowski, currently director, head of Product Underwriting for Property and Casualty (P/C) business, as the company’s chief underwriting officer.
Nowakowski joined Peak Re in January 2022 from Echo Re Switzerland where he served as the chief underwriting officer for nearly a decade. Before Echo Re, he worked for the French reinsurer SCOR for more than 16 years across local, regional and global positions, including nine years as general manager at SCOR’s Japan office in Tokyo. At SCOR, he has also served as head of Strategy & Development and general secretary for the Global P/C business based in Paris.
CNA Hardy Names AXA XL’s Borrel as Director of Risks
CNA Hardy has announced the appointment of Raphael Borrel to the role of director of Risks. Borrel is responsible for developing the risk strategy and framework, and providing leadership to the risk function.
Borrel is based in London and reports to Carl Kearney, chief actuary and risk officer.
Borrel joins CNA Hardy from AXA XL where he was the chief risk officer of XL Catlin Services Company.  He has 25 years’ experience in risk management and compliance and previously served tenures at Big 4 consultancy firms, global insurers and banks where he provided mergers and acquisitions support and led large scale risk and regulatory transformations.

Topics
Reinsurance
