Tysers, the independent Lloyd’s broker and part of AUB Group, announced the sale of its bloodstock broking team and the bloodstock managing agent, Galileo, to Howden.
“We had built an exceptional bloodstock business but, as our focus is no longer in this area, we entered a commitment to sell the business including our bloodstock underwriting unit, Galileo, to Howden, with the sale of the broking business completing on 1 February 2023. We are focusing our efforts on building our core business areas to deliver strategic growth, capitalise on new opportunities and ensure that our client-first approach is at the heart of everything we do,” commented Clive Buesnel, CEO of Tysers.
“We are delighted to have agreed the deal with Howden as we believe it is the perfect new home for the teams as Howden have extensive existing capability, an outstanding culture and a real passion for Bloodstock,” he added. “Becoming part of the AUB Group marked the start of an exciting future for Tysers. We have joined a company that shares Tysers’ vision of investing in our talented teams and empowering broking operations.”
“The acquisition of Tysers’ bloodstock team and the Galileo underwriting team will be a significant step in our strategy to enhance the scale, depth and expertise of our sport and entertainment specialty practice, of which Equine and Bloodstock are leading components,” said David Howden, CEO, Howden. “We will continue to develop our offering by attracting talented individuals to the team, who share in Howden’s commitment to Equine and Bloodstock clients and our passion for the equine world.”
Howden is an official partner of Ascot racecourse, and CEO David Howden is also the president and founder of the Cornbury House Horse Trials. He has also invested in British Eventing through the Howden Way, a training programme for young riders of all levels along with a young horse talent pathway programme.
Source: Tysers

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
Talent
Human Resources
