Rokstone, the Aventum Group’s international re/insurance MGA, announced a multi-year, multi-strategy capacity agreement with Accredited Insurance Program Management, a leading global program manager.
The partnership includes both US and international business.
This strategic partnership marks a significant milestone for both companies. The enhanced financial strength and expanded capabilities of Accredited will provide Rokstone with the necessary support to further develop its specialty insurance solutions and expand its market reach.
Accredited, which recently completed its acquisition by Onex Partners, writes more than $2 billion of gross premium and has an A- (Excellent) financial strength rating from AM Best.
The capacity agreement will enable Rokstone to offer a wider range of products and services to its clients, whilst also providing Accredited with a valuable opportunity to expand its portfolio and diversify its risk profile.
“We’re delighted to announce this latest carrier partnership with Accredited. The deal gives us additional security and our broker partners a seamless execution for each program,” commented James Potter, CEO, Rokstone, in a statement. “We maintain enviable relationships with a broad panel of leading carriers including Allianz and Munich Re, amongst others, which has allowed us to develop a diverse portfolio of non-correlating business.”
Potter said that this additional capacity gives Rokstone “the headroom and certainty” it needs to expand into new lines and target territories.
“We are pleased to be able to announce our first major partnership as an independent platform, in line with our strategy to work with best-in-class MGAs who we can support through our global scale and strong balance sheet,” according to William Spiegel, CEO, Accredited. “Rokstone has shown impressive growth, underpinned by sophisticated underwriting, and we look forward to helping them continue to build their offering and reach.”
With offices in the UK, Europe, USA, Asia, Africa and the Middle East, Rokstone currently underwrites more than US$1 billion GWP in such specialty lines as property, power generation, marine, aviation, warranty, credit & surety treaty, agriculture, construction & engineering, accident & health, and liability.
Source: Rokstone

Topics
New Markets
