Ryan Specialty announced that Ryan Specialty Transactional Risks International has expanded their presence with an office in Copenhagen, Denmark, which is the business’ fourth office.
Transactional Risks International is a part of Ryan Specialty’s Underwriting Managers platform and specializes on the core transactional risk products of warranty and indemnity insurance and commercial tax liability insurance, servicing brokers internationally.
Christian Ulrich Weiss Bruhn comes to Ryan Specialty from Accura Advokatpartnerselskab. Bruhn started his career at Kromann Reumert in 2013, joining in the banking & finance department before moving to the department for corporate transactions and capital & financial markets. He qualified as a Danish attorney-at-law in 2016. In 2019, Bruhn joined Accura’s banking & finance department. He holds a Bachelor of Laws and a Master of Laws from the University of Copenhagen as well as a Master of Laws from the London School of Economics and Political Science. Bruhn joined Ryan Specialty Transactional Risks International in November 2022.
“The demand for transactional risks insurance continues to grow so to be able to meet the needs of our clients, having a local presence in the Nordics is very important. Christian has great experience positioning us well both now and in the future,” commented George Pearce, director of Ryan Specialty Transactional Risks International.
Photograph: Residential and commercial properties stand on the bank of the canal in the Nyhavn district of central Copenhagen, Denmark, on Wednesday, Jan. 2, 2019. Photo credit: Luke MacGregor/Bloomberg

Topics
Excess Surplus
