Howden, the London-based global insurance group, unveiled a new brand as it brings together its global broking operations under one name.
Rebranding the brokers of A-Plan and Aston Lark introduces the Howden name to 215 locations across the UK and Ireland, reinforcing its commitment to investing in the high street, Howden.
The rebranding follows Howden’s announcement in April that it would unify and simplify its business structure under a single, aligned global executive, with insurance broking, reinsurance broking and underwriting reporting directly to David Howden, CEO.
“As we unveil our new brand and enter our 30th year, we are excited to mark this new chapter for Howden. I am incredibly proud of what we’ve built. The Howden brand will be represented by 15,000 people in 50 countries, not only capturing the scale of the firm’s operations for millions of clients but also, with a fresh and dynamic visual approach, expressing their collective difference,” commented David Howden, CEO, Howden.
“Our go-to-market strategy is simple; we are committed to acting as one business, bringing the full force of all our experts, regardless of specialism or geography, for the benefit of our clients. That way, with transparency and trust, I can promise that all our stakeholders get the very best of us,” he added.
“We are committed to being close to our clients, and in the UK and Ireland that means we believe in investing in the high street. We will now have a home in 215 high street branches and office locations, as A-Plan and Aston Lark change their name to Howden. We have plans to expand our retail presence even further with our first fully branded new branches opening soon as Howden in Canterbury, York and Kendal.”
About Howden
Founded in 1994, Howden provides re/insurance broking and underwriting services and solutions to clients ranging from individuals to the largest multinational companies. The group operates in 50 countries across Europe, Africa, Asia, the Middle East, Latin America, the USA, Australia and New Zealand, employing 15,000 people and handling $35bn of premium on behalf of clients.
Source: Howden