Gallagher will launch its first direct presence in Sweden on Monday, April 3, following the integration and rebranding of its three individual Swedish businesses Brim, Nordic and Proinova.
Gallagher acquired Brim in 2016, followed by Nordic in 2017 and Proinova in 2019. The coming together of the three businesses will see Gallagher have a team of over 65 risk professionals operating across Sweden with offices in Stockholm, Gothenburg, Helsingborg, Växjö and Gislaved.
Clients will continue to have the same day-to-day contacts, who understand their individual business and insurance requirements, but will benefit from the scale and buying power of Gallagher, and give them access to a larger suite of insurance products and services and its expertise across 43,000 global employees.
Gallagher’s initial acquisition in Sweden was Brim, a specialty insurance and reinsurance broker that provides property/casualty insurance, credit and political risk, and affinity insurance products and services to its Scandinavian and international clients. Its credit and political risk practice provides financing support for major infrastructure projects while its construction practice supports residential and commercial building development.
This was followed by Nordic, a broker offering a range of property/casualty services to medium and large corporations, as well as small business and personal lines solutions to members of affinity groups and industry associations throughout Sweden. It also specializes in developing tailored risk management and insurance programmes for the life sciences, transportation, engineering and other industrial sectors.
Finally, Proinova specializes in solutions for the real estate sector. The company has long-standing relationships with key trade associations as the provider of insurance as well as loss prevention training and claims advocacy to members. Its wider insurance broking business offers risk solutions for related areas such as municipalities, hotels and conferences, business property and individual real estate owners.
Jonas Bergfeldt, previously CEO of Nordic, has been appointed CEO of Gallagher in Sweden. With almost 30 years of experience in the insurance broking industry, Jonas has extensive knowledge of working with a wide variety of clients in different industries and is well positioned to lead the wider business. He will continue to report to Gallagher’s head of Scandinavia operations, Anders Mjaaland.
“We are very pleased to reach this key milestone with Gallagher having been an exceptional partner to Brim, Nordic and Proinova since being acquired. The integration and rebranding gives us an enviable springboard for further growth in Sweden, and we now are focused on expanding our services and helping more businesses to understand how Gallagher can support them to protect their assets from a wide array of risks,” commented Bergfeldt.
“We know how important it is to our clients that they still have the same contacts at the firm, and I would like to reassure them that the high quality service they currently receive will remain in place, being delivered by the same great team,” he added.

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
A.J. Gallagher
