This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Acrisure Re, MS Amlin and Tysers Broking.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Acrisure Re Hires Ed Broking’s D’Arcy for Facultative Team
Acrisure Re, the re/insurance division of top-10 global insurance broker and fintech platform Acrisure, announced the appointment of Jennifer D’Arcy as executive vice president of its Facultative Reinsurance division.
In her new role, D’Arcy will continue building out Acrisure Re’s FAC strategy for North America from London, as well as overseeing and developing Marine FAC solutions globally. Acrisure Re’s FAC team has already seen the build out of its Marine Cargo FAC capabilities with several new hires.
D’Arcy brings more than 21 years of industry experience and joins Acrisure Re from Ed Broking, where she was head of Facultative Reinsurance. Prior to Ed Broking, D’Arcy had similar roles at Price Forbes as well as RK Harrison, Gibbs Hartley Cooper, HSBC and Willis.
MS Amlin Names Carpenter’s Turner as Head of Risk Analytics
MS Amlin, the Lloyd’s global re/insurer, announced the appointment of Dr. Jessica Turner as head of Risk Analytics, effective June 26, 2023, and reporting to Martin Burke, director of Underwriting Performance.
Turner joins MS Amlin from Guy Carpenter where she spent over four years as a managing director and head of International Catastrophe Advisory. In this role, she was responsible for leading a team of natural catastrophe experts providing model advisory, evaluation and adjustment analytics as well as climate change physical risk quantification for all major perils in the EMEA and Asia-Pacific regions.
Prior to this, Turner spent more than two years at Lloyds Banking Group as a senior manager and has also held positions at Willis Re and RMS. She holds a doctorate in Atmospheric Science, an Advanced Diploma in Insurance, and is a Certified Catastrophe Risk Analyst.
With more than a decade of industry experience, Turner brings substantial expertise in the development of catastrophe risk management across different geographies and business lines. She has a proven track record in building and managing best-in-class teams of specialists to deliver timely and influential analytics to the market.
MS Amlin Underwriting is part of the global top-10 insurance group MS&AD, with operations in the Lloyd’s, UK, Middle East and Asia markets.
Tysers Taps Primassure’s Moore for Energy Division
Tysers, a London-based independent Lloyd’s broker, is delighted to announce that Mark Moore has joined the firm as director, Energy, to help grow Tysers’ Energy Division.
With more than 30 years of claims and broking experience, Moore previously worked at Primassure where he helped the firm join the Lloyd’s market before developing a global Energy account with a focus on Africa, North Sea, and Latin America.
He has held senior roles in the energy teams at WTW and AAA after starting his career at CE Heath. Moore has expert, technical knowledge of the energy sector, in particular, deep water, drilling and construction projects, and has worked closely with leading markets and energy experts on some of the biggest upstream development projects to be placed in the London market.
Part of the AUB Group, Tysers trades in 140 countries across the globe and has more than 1,000 employees.

Topics
Mississippi
