Aon Names Fulciniti as Head of Strategy Execution for Commercial Risk Solutions, EMEA
Insurance broker Aon plc has named Agostino (Ago) Fulciniti as head of strategy execution for Commercial Risk Solutions in EMEA, effective Jan. 1, 2023. In this new role, Fulciniti is part of the EMEA Commercial Risk leadership.
Fulciniti has been working for Aon for 20 years. He joined the firm in 2009 as CFO for Aon Italy and eventually the Middle East, supporting their growth across geographies and specialties and establishing an FP&A team. Most recently, he was the EMEA chief of staff, where he supported many projects, including serving as interim leader of Aon in the Netherlands.
Previously, he was the CFO for Commercial Risk and Affinity. He has also held positions as CFO for Aon Cyber Solutions and U.S. Commercial Risk and Health while he lived in Chicago for five years. Earlier in his career, he worked for seven years in the mobile telecommunications industry, with roles in commercial planning and sales analysis. Fulciniti holds a master’s degree in business administration and law.
“Ago will play a key role in delivering our EMEA Commercial Risk Solutions strategy across broking, claims, specialties and risk consulting, working closely with Luca Tassarotti, head of Commercial Risk in EMEA. I have been working very closely with Ago in the last year, and I am looking forward to seeing him focuson this role to take our performance and growth to the next level as we continue to help our clients make better decisions,” said Eduardo Dávila, EMEA CEO, Aon.
DARAG Appoints Mathis Wagner, Pearson to Lead M&A in Europe, UK
DARAG Group, the legacy acquisition company, announced two new heads of M&A – for Europe and the UK.
Till Mathis Wagner was named DARAG’s head of M&A, Europe, effective in Q1 of 2023, while Laura Pearson was appointed head of M&A, UK, effective Feb. 1, 2023.
Mathis Wagner joins DARAG from Guy Carpenter where he was most recently managing director of strategic advisory Europe, based in Munich. In this role he focused on legacy and retrospective transaction, capital solutions and structured reinsurance servicing clients across Europe. Prior to this, he worked as a senior consultant in actuarial services with EY on capital modeling and M&A transactions. Mathis Wagner is a member of the German Association of Actuaries.
Pearson joins DARAG from her role as a senior manager in PwC’s Deals Advisory team. At PwC, Pearson focused on run-off solutions and has been involved in a wide range of projects including legacy M&A transactions, multinational strategic exit reviews, insurance business transfers and commercial due diligence for investors in the legacy sector.
“Till brings an outstanding set of qualifications and practical experience to his role with us. His knowledge of the European legacy market, the regulatory environment, actuarial science and capital management is broad and significant,” commented Alexander Roth, global head of M&A, at DARAG.
In a separate announcement about Pearson, Roth said: “Laura is very well known in the legacy space and has an in-depth understanding of the market. Her many and varied connections within the London market will be invaluable to us as we further expand our UK deal generation and business development efforts.”

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Commercial Lines
Business Insurance
Europe
Aon
