MS Amlin AG announced it would rebrand this month to MS Reinsurance, which is a reflexion of parent company MS&AD’s commitment to building a leading, globally diversified reinsurer.
The company said that MS Reinsurance clients will continue to benefit from the group’s balance sheet strength and its diversified portfolio.
Part of a wider business transformation project led by the management team, MS Reinsurance will continue to offer its existing breadth of global products and will evaluate opportunities to expand the scope of business operations on an ongoing basis.
MS Reinsurance will continue to underwrite from its established platforms in Zurich, Bermuda, Miami and the recently opened New York office. The target operating model will serve markets and segmented client groups with bespoke delivery models.
This will further MS Reinsurance’s ability to optimize solutions for clients’ reinsurance needs and enhance the ease of doing business for clients and brokers. In addition to MS Reinsurance, which solely underwrites reinsurance risks, other units within the MS&AD group will continue to write reinsurance business in line with their strategy and risk appetite, the company said.
“The landscape in which we operate has changed drastically over the past few years, and I’m excited to be part of a business with both the capability and appetite for continued evolution. Unified under our new name and with a clear overarching vision to become a world-class global reinsurance platform, the underwriting expertise and specialism across our business enables both our team and clients to reach their full potential and ultimately achieve success,” commented Robert Wiest, chief executive officer of MS Reinsurance.
“As we continue our transformation journey as MS Reinsurance, our business remains underpinned by fruitful long-term relationships, local expertise across global markets and an unparalleled ability to provide flexible client solutions through the agility of our operations. I am greatly looking forward to this new chapter of strategic and sustainable growth,” Wiest added.
“We are delighted to see MS Reinsurance approach this strategic milestone, allowing the business to clearly define its place in the market as a company solely focused on reinsurance solutions. MS Reinsurance will continue to grow as an ambitious, client-focused reinsurer with a pragmatic and efficient approach,” said Tamaki Kawate, director and senior executive officer, head of International Business for Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance. “This rebrand represents the next step in MS Reinsurance’s evolution, and we are fully committed to continuing to support its ongoing journey.”
Source: MS Amlin AG

Topics
Reinsurance
Mississippi
