Specialist Risk Group (SRG), the London-based insurance intermediary, announced the acquisition of Anthony James Insurance Brokers, subject to regulatory approval.
Financial details of the transaction were not disclosed. This latest acquisition further expands and strengthens SRG’s retail pillar, Specialist Risk Insurance Solutions (SRIS).
Founded in 2009 and headquartered in Loughborough, England, Anthony James Insurance Brokers has built a strong reputation for providing comprehensive insurance services for businesses across the UK, SRG said. Its expertise spans a wide range of sectors including commercial, corporate, and high-net worth personal lines, making Anthony James a valuable addition to SRG’s existing portfolio.
Chairman and founder, Steve Boorman, and managing director, Jacob Duckworth, will continue to lead the business, aiming to accelerate growth both organically and through acquisitions. Their team of 50 staff will also transition to SRG, maintaining operations from the Loughborough and Nottingham offices as they establish and strengthen SRG’s presence in the East Midlands.
Anthony James becomes SRG’s fifth acquisition since it announced its new investment partners, Warburg Pincus and Temasek, in May this year, SRG noted.
“Steve, Jacob and the team at Anthony James are a brilliant addition to our growing group. They have built a fast growing and profitable business that we have admired for a number of years, and we are delighted to welcome them to SRG,” commented Lee Anderson, SRG group deputy CEO, in a statement.
Source: Strategic Risk Group

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
