This edition of International People Moves details appointments at the insurance broker Miller and insurer Arch Insurance International.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Miller Taps WTW’s Power, Besso’s Harvey for Professional Risks
Miller, the London-based independent specialist re/insurance broker, announced the appointment of Adam Power as account executive in the International Professional Risks team and Rebecca Harvey as account executive in the North American Professional Risks team.
Power will report to joint head of International Professional & Financial Risks Ed Pickard, and Harvey will report to Andy Brett, joint head of North American Professional Lines.
Power brings with him over 25 years’ experience, most recently as director and practice leader in the Construction Professional Indemnity team at WTW. Prior to this, he spent 16 years in Australia working with JLT and Aon, acting for mid-to-large sized corporate and global clients across Australia and Asia. Power also spent two years as a divisional director at Howden.
In his new role, Power will focus on leading the professional indemnity insurance offering for clients in the construction and property sectors, both in the UK and internationally, working with Miller’s newly expanded UK construction team to maximise cross class opportunities.
Harvey joins from independent Lloyd’s broker Besso, where she held the position of producer/broker. Prior to this, she worked at Marsh JLT Speciality as vice president, Management Liability, focusing on a variety of retail and wholesale risks in the UK, U.S., Canada and Australia. At Miller, Harvey will focus on North American production across professional lines with a focus on D&O.
Arch Insurance Int’l Appoints Barattini and Smith as Underwriters
Arch Insurance International announced the appointments of Patrizia Barattini as senior professional liability underwriter and Richard Smith as senior warranty & specialty affinity underwriter.
In an April 20 announcement, Arch said Barattini will be responsible for delivering insurance solutions across a broad range of clients and territories, joining a well-established professional liability team providing global coverage for exposures ranging from large complex risks to smaller accounts.
Based in London, she will report to Austen Barnes, underwriting manager, Professional Liability.
An accomplished underwriter, Barattini brings over 10 years of experience in the professional liability arena, operating across both international and European accounts. She joins from Markel International where she was most recently an underwriter within its professional liability team.
In a separate announcement issued on April 12, Arch Insurance International announced the appointment of Richard Smith as senior warranty & specialty affinity underwriter.
In his role, he will support the continued growth of the warranty & specialty affinity portfolio, alongside a team that operates as an established lead market, providing insurance and reinsurance solutions across a broad range of warranty, creditor and added value ancillary products.
Based in London, Smith will report to Sean Fearon, Arch Insurance International’s head of Warranty & Specialty Affinity.
Smith’s insurance expertise spans both the Lloyd’s and company markets. Most recently, he was a director at Newpoint Insurance Brokers having joined the company in 2007. Prior to that, Smith was a senior risk and pricing analyst at Advent Solutions Management and began his insurance career at Domestic and General.

Topics
Liability
Underwriting
Willis Towers Watson
