Generative artificial intelligence (AI) has sparked a lot of interest from insurers and reinsurers because of its potential to revolutionize innovation, cut costs and improve the customer experience.
Generative AI (or “Gen AI”) is the term used for technology that is able to generate completely new text, images, video and other materials when prompted by a user. It does so by using reference data to establish patterns and then providing new material with the same (or similar) characteristics.
Comparing generative AI with its machine learning predecessor is a bit like comparing a child, who has to be taught to read and write, with a teenager, who can do these things already and is moving on to history.
While the neural networks in machine learning had to be trained through the creation of large, labeled datasets that were time-consuming and expensive to produce, that need is eliminated with generative AI. With just a few instructions, generative AI models can find patterns between elements mathematically and produce accurate predictions and original content across a wide variety of scenarios at speed.
The upshot is a vastly greater level of understanding of—and response to—text and images than in machine learning, and this capability becomes exponentially more powerful as the algorithm gains expertise. Far more than just a new technology, generative AI is a transformative force.
Generative AI’s enormous potential is closely matched by the euphoria surrounding it. Unlike machine learning, or indeed blockchain, generative AI has garnered widespread C-suite buy-in. That’s largely down to ChatGPT. Quickly becoming the fastest-growing consumer application ever after its launch just over a year ago, the public chatbot is now mainstream and businesses are playing catchup.
Caution Required
Those insurers that are already fully digitized are better positioned to integrate generative AI solutions and plug-ins seamlessly. However, for insurers with more traditional, paper-based processes, generative AI can also be harnessed to create efficiencies. The perception that insurers and insurance agencies must digitize first before they can use generative AI at all is a false one.
Some insurance sector companies are already trialing ChatGPT or another public interface. However, the huge amount of sensitive, personal data held by our industry means firms should move extremely carefully.
The perception that insurers and insurance agencies must digitize first before they can use generative AI at all is a false one.