Guy Carpenter, the reinsurance business unit of Marsh McLennan, announced the formation of the Capital & Advisory group as part of its Global Capital Solutions unit.
The business also announced the appointment of Alexander Schnieders as global head of Capital & Advisory, reporting to Laurent Rousseau, CEO of Europe, IMEA and Global Capital Solutions.
The Capital & Advisory group has been established to expand Guy Carpenter’s offerings to c-suite clients globally and bring more capital to re/insurance risks. The team will raise capital for clients, advise on capital and M&A transactions, create new market capacity, and support new company formation.
Schnieders joins Guy Carpenter from Teneo Holdings, where he was the head of the Financial Institutions Group (FIG) and co-head of M&A. In his role, he managed all aspects of Teneo’s US insurance practice including strategy, business planning, deal sourcing and executing capital raising and M&A transactions. Prior to Teneo, Schnieders worked for Goldman Sachs and Perella Weinberg Partners in similar roles.
“The addition of a Capital & Advisory team to our already strong Global Capital Solutions unit, which includes cat bonds and other insurance-linked securities through GC Securities and legacy products through Global Risk Solutions, creates an offering that is unmatched in the industry. With Alexander’s extensive background and strong relationships, the team is well positioned to serve our clients,” commented Rousseau.
“I am delighted to join Guy Carpenter in this newly created role. I have a long-standing respect for the Guy Carpenter team and confidence we will provide clients a differentiated offering to help them achieve their risk, capital and strategic goals,” said Schnieders.
Source: Guy Carpenter