This edition of International People Moves details appointments at McGill and Partners, Miller, and HDI Global Specialty.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
McGill and Partners, the boutique specialist re/insurance broker, has appointed Dominic Mignon as deputy CFO at McGill and Partners, and CFO of McGill and Partners Ltd.
Mignon is joining McGill and Partners after over 23 years at Aon (and Benfield).
Mignon has nearly 25 years’ experience in the industry, having started his career at Benfield delivering impact initially in the reinsurance business (CFO International Aon Benfield 2010-2014). Mignon then became deputy CFO, Risk Solutions, and UK CFO, Aon, with a broader remit for all Aon Solution lines, and finally CFO of Human Capital at Aon. Mignon also previously held the role of Honorary Treasurer at the Insurance Institute of London between 2016 and 2021.
In addition to his extensive re/insurance experience, Mignon spent three years in Chicago as the chief of staff to Aon CEO Greg Case, where he supported on the design and launch of Aon’s New Ventures Group, a unit focusing on the rapid incubation and delivery of new high-impact sources of value for clients.
Mignon’s role at McGill and Partners will be focused on leading and managing the finance function supporting the business’ expansion and growth plans. Using his extensive experience within finance functions, Mignon is well placed to support the broker grow sustainably and in a disciplined manner to profitability and beyond.
“With a professional background spanning nearly twenty-five years and strong expertise both within the finance function and in wider strategic business leadership, Dominic will be a valuable asset to the team. As a young business we always have our eyes on the future, and Dominic will play an important role in our growth plans moving forward,” commented Steve McGill, CEO of London-based McGill and Partners.
Mignon is also a member of the advisory board of RATL (Race Action Through Leadership), focusing on elevating ethnic groups that are underrepresented in the insurance industry by working with C-suites to drive action.
Launched in May 2019, McGill and Partners has significant backing from funds affiliated with Warburg Pincus, a leading global private equity firm. The company has offices in London, New York, Miami and Dublin.
Lockton’s Pye Joins Miller’s Solicitors Professional Indemnity Team
Miller, the London-based independent specialist re/insurance broker, announced the appointment of Sam Pye as account executive in its Solicitors Professional Indemnity (PI) team. Pye joined the team on March 21 and will report to Zarina Lawley, head of Solicitors PI.
Pye, who brings more than 20 years expertise from both a legal and insurance perspective, joins from Lockton Professions. Over the course of her career, Pye has specialized in PI insurance, cyber insurance and management liability insurance and has also held roles at QPI Legal, Mills & Reeve Solicitors and Browne Jacobson Solicitors.
Her blend of legal and insurance experience means she brings an informed view to firms of all sizes, particularly medium to large law firms. This will complement Miller’s specialist expertise in professional indemnity, where it serves the needs of more than 1,000 legal practices.
HDI Global Specialty Promotes Dave as UK Head of Aviation & Space
HDI Global Specialty has promoted Neil Dave to the position of head of Aviation and Space for the UK, effective March 1. He previously was the insurer’s senior aviation underwriter.
Dave joined HDI Global Specialty in November 2020 and has almost 20 years’ experience in the aviation industry, initially at KLM before moving into broking with Marsh in 2004. He then spent 13 years at MS Amlin both in London and also Singapore where he ran their aviation account across the Asia Pacific region.
Returning to London in 2016, he was responsible for the development and delivery of MS Amlin’s underwriting strategy for the insurer’s global aviation portfolio.
Since joining HDI Global Specialty, Dave has played a key role in driving the aviation team’s business strategy and underwriting discipline.
“We are pleased to announce Neil Dave has been appointed as head of Aviation and Space for the UK. Since joining the team we have been impressed by his capability in contributing to the management of our aviation portfolio, particularly in deductible business and aviation war, but also by his drive and professionalism,” commented Rafael Rebitzky, HDI Global Specialty’s managing director, UK Branch.

Topics
Aviation
Aon
