Climate change protesters in London have targeted insurance underwriting house Lloyd’s of London for its role in enabling fossil fuel projects.
The City of London Police said they were aware of protests at London’s Liverpool Street Station and the Lloyd’s building on Lime Street. At least 10 police vans were seen outside the building, and a helicopter hovered above.
The Extinction Rebellion activists unfurled a banner from the external staircase of the Lloyd’s building that read “end fossil fuels now,” and blocked the main entrance of the building, although workers could still be seen to be entering through alternative entrances.
BREAKING NEWS@LloydsofLondon is closed for the day, as Extinction Rebellion shut the Lloyd’s building this AM.
Why? Lloyd’s of London must stop underwriting fossil fuel projects. Insuring new oil & gas in a #ClimateCrisis makes no sense. We must insure #ClimateJustice. pic.twitter.com/uLerJReF8B
— Extinction Rebellion UK (@XRebellionUK) April 12, 2022
Lloyd’s of London advised its employees and guests not to come to the building in light of the protests, but the market remains open and trading is continuing online, a spokesperson said in an emailed statement.
“Lloyd’s supports safe and constructive engagement on the issue of climate change and we continue to explore the ways in which Lloyd’s can support a responsible transition,” the spokesperson added. [Editor’s note: Lloyd’s subsequently issued a notice that as of 4 p.m. on Tuesday, all protestors had left the Lloyd’s building and surrounding area. Lloyd’s said it would confirm by 7 a.m. on Wednesday if the building will open and is safe to re-enter].
Extinction Rebellion is a mostly UK-based activist group who carry out disruptive and dramatic protests with the aim of sparking action to tackle climate change.
–With assistance from Will Louch and Tom Metcalf.
Photograph: Protesters outside the Lloyd’s of London building in the City of London, on April 12, 2022. Photo credit: Chris J. Ratcliffe/Bloomberg
Related:

Topics
Excess Surplus
Tech
Lloyd's
Climate Change
