NFP, a New York City-based property/casualty broker, announced it has acquired Gravity Risk Services Ltd., an insurance broker based in the West Midlands, England.
Financial terms of the deal were not disclosed.
NFP will integrate Gravity’s risk services into its existing commercial insurance offerings, employee benefits, and human resources services.
All of Gravity’s team members and key executives will become part of the NFP team, including founder and director Dale Collett.
“NFP is always assessing the market with the intent to acquire firms that support our ethos and core values around the importance of client services and exceptional carrier relations,” said Matt Pawley, president, NFP in Europe. “We are impressed with Gravity’s growth, a direct result of great leadership and innovative insurance solutions for clients. We fully expect that our investment in Gravity will enhance this growth.”
“We are delighted to join NFP and continue to provide our advice-led approach to business,” said Collett. “This will give our existing clients access to NFP’s wide range of services, provide us with a great opportunity to grow in capacity, and introduce our employees to expanded career prospects within a larger, global organization.”
About NFP
NFP is a property/casualty broker, benefits consultant, wealth manager, HR services consultant, and retirement plan adviser through its licensed subsidiaries and affiliates. NFP is the seventh largest privately owned broker and employs more than 7,400 globally.
Source: NFP Corp.

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
