Howden, the London-based global insurance group, announced it has bolstered its risk management capabilities in the UK through the acquisition of AHR Consultants, a leading provider of HR, employment law, training and health & safety services.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
Based in Rugby, England, the AHR Consultants team provides a range of HR support and consultancy solutions for businesses, including legally compliant employment documentation and unlimited HR advice. In addition, AHR offers health & safety compliance guidance, providing support for risk assessments, fire safety, policies, and training, as well as access to legal experts.
“I’m delighted to welcome Simon and team to the Howden family. It is clear that AHR and Howden have a very similar customer service ethos and the two businesses are a great fit,” commented Warren Dickson, CEO Corporate & Commercial, Howden. “I’m looking forward to seeing our newly expanded risk management proposition grow and thrive over the coming years through this exciting acquisition.”
Simon Howes, managing directorof AHR Consultants, said: “Becoming part of Howden is an exciting step for our clients and employees. We look forward to the opportunity to extend the range of services we can offer our clients, and to offering AHR’s risk management services to Howden clients.”
Howden is the fifth largest employee-owned business in the UK, and one of the largest insurance groups in the world, with $35 billion premium under management and 1.7 million clients served by 16,000 employees.
Source: Howden

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
