Lockton, the independent insurance broker, announced two key senior promotions within its Crisis Management team in London.
Helen Sandford has been appointed as head of Special Crime, and Freddie Schlesinger has been appointed head of Product Recall and Reputational Risk, effective May 1, 2024. They will both support the continued growth of the Crisis Management team, which includes war, terrorism & political violence, special crime, and product recall & reputational risk under one roof.
Sandford and Schlesinger will report to Matt Humphries, head of Crisis Management.
Sandford brings a wealth of knowledge and expertise in providing bespoke placements across Special Crime risk to her new role. She was previously assistant vice president at Lockton, serving as Special Crime lead for the Lockton Crisis Management team.
Schlesinger joined Lockton in 2019, serving as vice president and has extensive experience and a proven track record in product recall, and a demonstrable commitment to client excellence.
These appointments follow the appointment of James Bannister as head of War, Terrorism & Policial Violence in the Crisis Management team last year.
In a separate announcement, Lockton Norway AS detailed its succession plan for its senior leadership team.
Anders Johannessen will become CEO of Lockton’s Norway business from May 1. His predecessor, Cato Aamodt, will remain a key component of the Norwegian leadership team.
Meanwhile, Lorraine Boyle is set to become chair of Lockton Norway, taking over from Alistair Rivers, CEO of the company’s Global Marine business.
Johannessen joined the company in 2018. He’ll lead its next phase of growth, while continuing to be a driving force behind its Global Marine efforts.
“Under the leadership of Cato Aamodt, we’ve developed capabilities that span professional and financial risks, transaction solutions and private equity,” Johannessen said.
He noted that the acquisition in July 2023 of Edge Group, the London-based specialist marine insurance broker, has given Lockton marine capabilities. “[A]nd we’ve also invested in energy, property/casualty and people solutions. Cato made all this possible – and he remains a key member of our diverse, inclusive leadership team,” Johannessen added.

Topics
Leadership
