This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Swiss Re, MS Reinsurance, and Aon.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Swiss Re Promotes Ningen to CEO, US P&C Re
Monica Ningen has been named CEO of US P&C Reinsurance at Swiss Re and Jolee Crosby has been appointed to take over Ningen’s former role as President & CEO of Swiss Re Canada & English Caribbean, effective July 1, 2023. Both roles are subject to regulatory approval.
Ningen replaces Keith Wolfe, who has decided to pursue opportunities outside of Swiss Re.
In her new role leading US P&C, Ningen will lead a team of client managers, claims experts and underwriters while maintaining Swiss Re’s position as a trusted partner in its largest market. She is well positioned for the role having spent five years successfully leading Swiss Re’s operations in Canada and the English Caribbean.
Ningen has nearly three decades of experience in the re/insurance industry, starting her career at E.W. Blanch, a reinsurance broker. She joined Swiss Re in 2006 when Swiss Re acquired GE Insurance Solutions. Since that time, she has held several leadership roles in Property Underwriting, including Head of Property Underwriting US & Canada.
Crosby will manage Swiss Re’s P&C and L&H businesses in Canada and the English Caribbean regions and will also oversee teams managing claims, underwriting and client and broker relationships.
Crosby has 25 years of international experience in the re/insurance industry, joining Swiss Re in 1998 after a successful career in insurance law. She has held leadership positions in both the Property and Casualty and Life and Health businesses, most recently heading the global L&H Underwriting and Medical Reimbursement team.
Until July 1 Ningen will continue in her current role to ensure a smooth transition for clients.
MS Reinsurance Hires 4 Leaders in Data, Underwriting
MS Reinsurance, the global reinsurer that is part of insurance group MS&AD, announced the appointment of four senior leaders who will provide additional technical expertise across data and underwriting operations.
All four will be based in Zurich, Switzerland.
Benedikt Schmid joined as chief information and data officer on Feb. 1, 2023 and reports to Chief Executive Officer Robert Wiest. Schmid brings 24 years of experience in the reinsurance industry and was previously chief information officer at AXIS Re. In his new role, Schmid leads the implementation of MS Reinsurance’s IT strategy, aimed at improving the use of data and technology to support the business.
Susanne Gnädinger joined as chief transformation officer on Nov. 1, 2022 and also reports to Robert Wiest. She is spearheading the recently rebranded business’ modernization journey and joined from Partner Re where she spent 17 years developing deep expertise in business processes, systems design, and integrating new technologies for reinsurance.
Marcus Pollak joined as head of Underwriting Operations on Feb. 1, 2023 and reports to Grégoire Mauchamp, chief technical underwriting officer. In this newly created role, Pollak leads the Underwriting Operations team and supports a wide range of products and processes globally, across various geographies. Pollak also joins from AXIS Re where he led the Global Underwriting Support team. He brings strong technical qualifications with a successful track-record in senior leadership positions.
On March 1, 2023, Stefan Behr will join MS Reinsurance as head of EMEA Group Clients, International Casualty and Engineering and report to Jörg Bruniecki, chief underwriting officer EMEA. Behr brings a blend of business development, client management, and underwriting experience and joins from Swiss Re where, most recently, he was the head of Business Development EMEA. His appointment further strengthens the company’s growing, global underwriting team, enhancing their commitment to providing best-in-class reinsurance solutions.
MS Reinsurance is a global reinsurer domiciled in Switzerland, with underwriting offices in Zurich, Bermuda, Miami and New York. MS Reinsurance is the trading name of MS Amlin AG, the risk carrying legal entity.
Aon Promotes Day, Dickson in Political Violence & Terrorism Team
Aon plc, the global professional services firm, announced the appointments of Tony Day as head of Crisis Management and Julia Dickson as head of War and Terrorism.
Day will report to Bernhard Steves, Global Specialty Products leader, and Helene Madell, head of Property, Casualty and Crisis Management. Dickson will report to Day.
Day was most recently chief broking officer for Crisis Management at Aon, stepping into this role in 2017. Previously, he was head of Global Terrorism and before that he was head of International Terrorism when he joined Aon in 2013. Before joining Aon, Day held several roles at Chesterfield Insurance Brokers Ltd. and Crescent Global Ltd. in the fields of political violence and terrorism.
Dickson joined Aon in 2013 and was most recently head of International War and Terrorism. Before joining the Aon’s Terrorism and Political Violence team, Dickson had specialized in diamond broking for Hennig, the leading international diamond broker and consultant.

Topics
Catastrophe
Natural Disasters
USA
Data Driven
Underwriting
Reinsurance
Aon
Property Casualty
Mississippi
Swiss Re
