This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Argenta Syndicate Management Ltd. (ASML), Fusion and BMS Group.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Argenta Appoints AXIS Re’s Haynes as Marine Excess of Loss U/W
Argenta Syndicate Management Ltd. (ASML), a subsidiary of Argenta Holdings Ltd., announces the appointment of Stephen Haynes as marine excess-of-loss underwriter, effective immediately. Based in London, he will report to Heath Callan, Argenta’s head of energy and marine insurance.
Haynes brings close to four decades’ worth of experience in the energy and marine insurance market and joins from AXIS Re (a division of AXIS Capital Ltd.), where he was head of global energy and marine reinsurance. He joined AXIS following the acquisition of Novae where he held the role of class underwriter, marine and energy reinsurance.
Prior to this, Haynes held senior underwriting positions at Platinum Re, St Paul Re and was class underwriter, marine and aviation reinsurance, at Catlin Underwriting Services. Haynes began his career in a number of broking positions principally involved in marine treaty and facultative placing and claims broking.
Argenta Holdings Ltd., a subsidiary of Hannover Re, is the parent company of ASML and of Argenta Private Capital Ltd., which provides investor capacity to the Lloyd’s market of almost £3.3 billion for 2022. ASML is a Lloyd’s authorized managing agency, housing the Argenta Group’s underwriting operations, Argenta Syndicate 2121 and SPA 6134.
Fusion Names Senior Hires in Singapore, Hong Kong
Fusion, the Sydney-based speciality managing general agent that provides insurance solutions to small and medium-sized businesses, announced the appointments of Hui Ling Wong as senior partner, and Yen Lin Ee as partner, in mergers and acquisitions (M&A) underwriting.
The newly appointed executives will be responsible for further strengthening Fusion’s underwriting capability of cross-border M&A transactions in the region, as well as growing and facilitating Fusion’s relationships with its clients, brokers, and partners. The appointments come at a time when Fusion continues to achieve strong growth and momentum in the Asia Pacific region, and as the company accelerates its global expansion in the specialty M&A insurance market.
Hui Ling Wong joins the Fusion team in Hong Kong as senior partner and is well regarded as an industry leader in the Asian M&A insurance market. Wong brings with her more than 15 years of legal and insurance experience. Most recently, she was head of Aon’s M&A transaction liability business for Asia. A lawyer by training, her career has involved advising international private equity and corporate investors on their M&A transactions, as well as the placement of M&A insurance solutions, at large firms including Allen & Gledhill, Maples and Calder, and Vanguard Investments.
Yen Lin Ee joins the Fusion team in Singapore as partner and brings with her a wealth of experience in facilitating M&A transactions in the Asia Pacific region. Ee joins the company from the M&A team at preeminent insurance broker Aon where she led a team advising on and placing warranty and indemnity (W&I) insurance for a diverse range of M&A transactions for global clients.
Established in 2018, Fusion is rapidly expanding globally with offices in Melbourne, Sydney, Singapore, Hong Kong, Chicago, Boston, New York, Dallas and London. Fusion is part of the POP Holdings Group which invests in capital-light, niche, data and technology enabled, and well positioned businesses that are transforming M&A, Financial Lines and specialty insurance experiences.
BMS Group Names Tesei Director of European Energy Reinsurance
BMS Group, the London-based insurance broker, announce a further expansion of its specialty energy practice with the senior industry hire of Alex Tesei as director of European energy reinsurance.
Tesei has over 25 years industry experience most recently spending a decade building up and leading the reinsurance division of Ribé Salat in Spain, specializing in facultative reinsurance. Most recently he was appointed head of facultative insurance at K.M.Dastur Ltd., in London and earlier in his career spent four years as managing director of Brex Re, based in Spain. Across all three roles, Tesei specialized in setting up and developing companies and departments, driving revenue growth, identifying niche market opportunities and spearheading territorial expansion into international markets.
His appointment is with effect from October 2022, and he will be based in London reporting to James Chicken, BMS’ managing director of energy.

Topics
Europe
Reinsurance
