This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Gallagher Re, Dale Underwriting Partners and AXA XL.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Gallagher Re Taps Posada from Howden to Lead LatAm, Caribbean Sales
Gallagher Re announced that Andres Posada will join the global reinsurance broker as executive vice president, head of Sales for its Latin America and Caribbean region.
Based in Miami, Posada will report to Edson Wiggers, CEO of Latin America and Caribbean. Posada will be responsible for leading the region’s sales operations, driving revenue growth and continuing to strengthen Gallagher Re’s position as a trusted partner in the reinsurance broking industry. Posada will join Gallagher Re by the end of Q3.
Posada has nearly 15 years of industry experience and will join Gallagher Re from Howden Insurance Brokers, where he most recently served as LatAm treaty head for more than three years. Prior to Howden, he served in multiple positions at JLT, starting as a commercial assistant, and then progressing within their treaty team to senior vice president for Colombia and Peru as its head of Strategy and senior broker based in Miami. Posada also held positions as board member of Howden Re Colombia and of ACTER, the Colombian Reinsurance Association.
Dale Appoints Pettifer From Liberty for Property Open Market
Dale Underwriting Partners (DUP), the trading name for Dale Managing Agency Ltd.’s Lloyd’s Syndicate 1729, has announced the appointment of Robert Pettifer as underwriter in the Property Open Market Team, effective Nov. 6, 2023.
Pettifer brings with him more than 12 years’ experience in the insurance industry and will support the property open market team’s growth strategy as it aims to capitalize on current market opportunities. He joins from Liberty Specialty Markets, where he most recently served as senior underwriter, Property D&F.
Based in London, Pettifer will report to Marcus Turner, head of Property Open Market.
“Rob’s appointment is part of a wider Dale strategy to capitalise on new business opportunities amid current conditions in the property open market,” said Deputy Active Underwriter Ian Bridge. “At Dale we are focused on strategic, deliberate growth where we can offer real expertise to our clients and brokers throughout the underwriting process.”
“Rob has a proven track record as an experienced International and US Property Underwriter writing across a broad range of occupancies and geographical territories,” said Turner. “He will also specifically add extra international experience and relationships to our Property Open Market business. We are delighted to have an individual of Rob’s caliber joining us and are looking forward to working with him to continue helping to expand our property offerings to our clients and brokers alike.”
Dale Underwriting Partners is an independent, owner-managed underwriting business which began trading on Jan. 1, 2014, with the formation of Lloyd’s Syndicate 1729. The syndicate underwrites property re/insurance, casualty, healthcare liability, specialty, marine reinsurance and energy. Since then, the business has grown, and in 2021 it announced a new joint venture, Dale DUAL MGU Ltd. In 2022, Dale was given authorization to establish its managing agency at Lloyd’s, Dale Managing Agency Ltd.
AXA XL Appoints RiskPoint’s Hayzelden to Lead Upstream Energy, UK & Lloyd’s
AXA XL announced that Lee Hayzelden has been appointed as head of Upstream Energy, UK & Lloyd’s, effective Aug. 17.
Hayzelden will lead AXA XL’s Upstream Energy team, covering both offshore oil & gas and offshore renewable wind risks. Based in London, he will further develop the well-established Upstream Energy book, expanding on AXA XL’s energy transition proposition.
Hayzelden has over 20 years’ experience in the London insurance market, including 14 years at Swiss Re, where he held a number of positions including Head of Energy Offshore. Most recently, he was Chief Operating Officer – Offshore Energy & Marine at RiskPoint.
“Upstream energy remains a strategic part of AXA XL’s energy portfolio and plays a key role in our energy transition offering. As a leader in this market, we’re committed to supporting our clients as they transition to a low-carbon economy,” commented Nicola Harris, head of Energy, UK & Lloyd’s at AXA XL.
“I’m delighted to welcome Lee to AXA XL. His significant knowledge of underwriting upstream energy risks – and more recently, offshore renewable wind – will further support our ambitions within the energy space, including broadening our existing portfolio,” Harris added.

Topics
Property
A.J. Gallagher
AXA XL
