This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI) and Lockton Re.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
BHSI Promotes 2 Regional Leaders for Europe, Middle East
Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI) announced that it has appointed two BHSI leaders to regional leadership positions. Alessandro Cerase has been appointed president & head of Europe Region, and Neeraj Yadvendu is now head of Middle East, and subject to regulatory approval, will concurrently take on the role of senior executive officer of the Dubai International Financial Centre Branch.
Cerase joined BHSI in 2018 as senior executive officer for BHSI Middle East and led the launch of BHSI’s business in the region. In 2020 he was named to the additional position of global property underwriter officer for Construction & Energy. He has more than 25 years of global insurance industry experience and has lived and worked in the UK, the U.S, and the Middle East. He will continue to be based in Dubai and report to Peter Eastwood, president and chief executive officer, BHSI.
Yadvendu joined BHSI in 2018 as deputy senior executive officer and head of Third Party Lines in the Middle East and has played a pivotal role in BHSI’s growth in the region. He has more than 26 years of global insurance industry experience and has lived and worked in the UK, Asia, and the Middle East. Neeraj will continue to be based in Dubai and will report to Marc Breuil, head of Asia Middle East, BHSI.
“BHSI has been growing steadily and strategically around the globe and at an accelerated pace in our Europe, and Middle East regions,” said Eastwood. “Alessandro and Neeraj, and the stellar teams they have built, have been pivotal to this expansion.”
Lockton Re Taps Guy Carpenter’s Hunter as a Senior Broker
Lockton Re, the global reinsurance business of Lockton Companies, announced that Jaimie Hunter has joined Lockton Re as a senior broker supporting client development.
Hunter, who will be based in Lockton Re’s new Stamford, Conn.-based office, will focus across casualty business in North America on a range of client solutions, including treaty and facultative program solutions for casualty, auto, and professional liability.
Prior to joining Lockton Re, Hunter spent over 20 years at Guy Carpenter, and most recently was a managing director in New York, where she led treaties, facultative and hybrid/automatic facultative placements, working with some of the industry’s biggest clients.
“Jaimie has a long track record of success as a client advocate and leader, and we are thrilled she has joined the team. Jaimie’s experience in working with some of the most complex global reinsurance buyers means she knows how to provide exceptional service for our clients, adding to our best-in-class platform,” commented Nick Durant, North America CEO, Lockton Re. “Additionally, we are looking forward to having a new Lockton Re office in Stamford. Our growing client and talent base makes Stamford the right location for us to expand.”

Topics
Agencies
Europe
Leadership
