This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Chubb and Everest Re.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Chubb Promotes Kirk as Division President of Chubb Global Markets
Chubb announced that David Kirk has been appointed division president, Chubb Global Markets, the company’s London Market wholesale and specialty business, including its Lloyd’s platform.
Currently, he serves as head of Marine and deputy chief underwriting officer for the division. In his new role, Kirk will have executive management responsibility for Chubb Global Markets.
Kirk will report to David Furby, senior vice president, Chubb Group, and regional president, Chubb Europe, Middle East and Africa. With the appointment, Furby is relinquishing his role as division president Chubb Global Markets.
The appointment, which is subject to regulatory approval, is expected to be effective on July 1.
With nearly 20 years of industry experience, Kirk joined Chubb in 2005. Since then, he has held various roles of increasing responsibility in marine for Chubb Global Markets.
Kirk is a Chartered Insurer and a fellow of the Chartered Insurance Institute.
Everest Re Promotes Doshi as Head of North America Treaty Casualty
Everest Reinsurance, the reinsurance division of Everest Group Ltd., announced the appointment of Mayur Doshi as head of North America Treaty Casualty, reporting to Jiten Voralia, head of North America Treaty Reinsurance.
Doshi joined Everest in 2019 as vice president, U.S. Treaty Casualty, from The Navigators Group, where he was responsible for treaty and facultative reinsurance purchasing across the company’s long-tail lines of business. Doshi spent more than a decade with Odyssey Reinsurance Co., most recently as serving as senior casualty and facultative underwriter. He has also held positions of increasing responsibility with Swiss Re, among other major firms.
Doshi holds a bachelor’s degree in economics from the University of Connecticut and serves as a director on the Intermediaries & Reinsurance Underwriters Association (IRUA) Board.

Topics
Casualty
Chubb
