Aston Lark, a Howden company, announced it has agreed terms to acquire the independent broker Allegiance Insure Ltd.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
London-based Allegiance Insure was established by Charles Wintour in 2015. The company specializes in financial lines insurance and has also developed specialist fraud insurance for short-term lenders. Offering a highly personal service, Charles Wintour and his team have established close working relationships with their loyal clients, most of whom they have served for many years.
“I’m delighted that Charles and his team have decided to join forces with Aston Lark,” commented Peter Blanc, Aston Lark Group CEO. “The expertise of the Allegiance team will strengthen our capabilities in the London market, and we are also excited by the opportunity to grow their scheme which offers fraud protection to lenders. It’s an innovative product with huge potential.”
“As ever, cultural fit was the prime driver and I know that Charles and his team will find Aston Lark and Howden to be a great forever home,” Blanc added.
Charles Wintour, managing director of Allegiance Insure, said: “Our clients and staff are our primary consideration. Aston Lark have a first-rate reputation for client service and share our values. I am delighted we have been able to partner with Aston Lark and the Howden Group to allow us to broaden our client offering and provide our staff with further career development opportunities.”
About Aston Lark
With 2,000 people across more than 75 offices in the UK and Ireland, Aston Lark has 200,000 customers and more than £1.2 billion of GWP. The company said it has expertise in all commercial sectors, industry-specific schemes, employee benefits consultancy, and private client solutions.
Source: Aston Lark

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
