Everest Re Group Ltd. announced the passing of Don Mango, the company’s chief risk officer and chief actuary.
Ari Moskowitz, Everest Reinsurance chief operations officer and chief pricing actuary, has been appointed the group’s chief risk officer to lead the risk function and carry Mango’s legacy forward.
Mango’s contributions to the risk management and actuarial community were widely recognized throughout his three-decade long career, said Everest Re in a statement. He was a prize-winning author and researcher, published broadly across actuarial journals. He also was an adjunct lecturer at the Columbia University School of Professional Studies. Mango served two terms on the Casualty Actuarial Society (CAS) Board, four years as CAS vice president of Research and Development and was honored with the CAS Matthew Rodermund Memorial Service Award for his achievements.
The cause of Mango’s death was not revealed.
“With Don’s passing, we lost a beloved colleague and friend. Don was a legend in our industry and had an immeasurable impact on Everest’s business and culture,” said Juan C. Andrade, Everest president and CEO. “He was deeply committed to supporting the next generation of risk management leaders. To honor his legacy, Everest is establishing the Don Mango Scholarship at the Greenberg School of Risk Management, Insurance and Actuarial Science at St. John’s University. Additionally, we are creating the Don Mango Award for Innovation to recognize Everest colleagues who demonstrate excellence within our company.”
Moskowitz will report to Jim Williamson, group chief operating officer and head of Everest Reinsurance. He will be responsible for the company’s risk management strategy, enterprise risk management framework and related group processes, including capital performance management.
Moskowitz brings deep experience in risk management and reinsurance to his new role. Most recently, he was Everest Reinsurance’s chief operations officer and chief pricing actuary. For nearly a decade at Everest, Moskowitz has played a key role in integrating risk discipline within the reinsurance business. Throughout his career, Moskowitz served in increasingly senior actuarial roles at various global reinsurance and insurance organizations.
Source: Everest Re Group Ltd.