This edition of International People Moves details appointments at the broker Aon and claims services provider McLarens.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Insurance broker Aon plc appointed Ed Thomas as head of Lloyd’s Capital within its Reinsurance Solutions Capital Advisory team.
Thomas will be responsible for leading Aon’s Lloyd’s-focused Capital Advisory services, focusing on capital-raising and capacity-enhancing initiatives that support managing agencies’ growth strategies, while helping them to navigate volatility and build resilience.
His remit will also include supporting the creation of new syndicates and delivering risk transfer and capital optimisation programmes, recognising that Lloyd’s remains a leading global marketplace for the deployment of specialty re/insurance capital.
Based in London, Thomas joins Aon from Lloyd’s of London, where he held several executive positions – most recently as head of Member Services, a role in which he was responsible for overseeing approximately £37 billion of funds at Lloyd’s.
During his time at Lloyd’s, Thomas also helped develop its pioneering insurance-linked securities structures, serving as director to Lloyd’s insurance risk transformation entities London Bridge Risk PCC Limited and London Bridge 2 PCC Limited, launched in 2021 and 2022 respectively.
Thomas, a qualified accountant, brings more than 15 years of insurance experience to Aon, having built lasting relationships with investors and capital providers throughout his career. He has also held roles at professional services firm Deloitte, insurer Chubb, and broker The Ardonagh Group.
McLarens Names 2 Leadership Appointments in Latin America
McLarens, the global claims services provider, announced two senior leadership appointments in Latin America. Felipe Ramirez has been appointed as managing director of the McLarens Latin America, and Leo Garzon is to take on a new global role within the organization as senior vice president, Group Operation, Latin America.
Ramirez previously served as the managing director for Latin America at a major global insurance services firm, overseeing a team of over 350 people. In his role as MD of McLarens Latin America, Ramirez will be responsible for the strategy, direction, and overall success of all aspects of McLarens’ operations across the region. He will be based out of Mexico City and Houston, Texas, and will oversee operations across oversee all current and future McLarens operations across Latin America.
Ramirez is an industrial engineer with a specialty in finance. He brings a wealth of industry knowledge and leadership experience to the role, with a proven track record of building meaningful partnerships. He has been a loss adjuster for over 25 years working within the Latin American, US and London markets. Having led business growth in Mexico, Colombia, Peru, Chile and Brazil, Ramirez has handled diverse assignments ranging from oil & gas, power generation, mining, catastrophe events, marine, financial lines, cyber, aviation, civil liability, environmental and business interruption.
Ramirez will succeed the current managing director of McLarens Latin America, Leo Garzon, who takes on a new global role within the organization as senior vice president, Group Operations, Latin America. This includes leading McLarens’ Group Operations within the region, with responsibility for expansion into new segments, partnerships, and service offerings, alongside strengthening relationships across international reinsurance markets in London and Miami, Florida. Garzon will continue to serve as an executive member of the Global Management Team. With more than 25 years in the forensic engineering, construction and insurance industries, Garzon has extensive experience in risk and vulnerability assessments across various industries, catastrophe (CAT) response, claims data management and business management.
“Over the last two years we made significant progress in expanding our market position and building the McLarens brand in Latin America. It’s a dynamic and diverse region with strong potential for growth for our core claims, specialty and technical consulting services,” commented Gary Brown, CEO. “We have ambitious plans to advance our marketshare in the region. I am very excited to begin this new business chapter in Latin America and congratulate both Felipe and Leo on their new roles.”

Topics
Excess Surplus
Leadership
Lloyd's
Aon
