This edition of International People Moves details appointments at three insurance brokers: Miller, Howden and Aon.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Miller Names Markel’s Duda as Head of ILS in Bermuda
Miller, the London-based independent specialist re/insurance broker, announced the appointment of John Duda as head of ILS Development & Capital Management Products, as the firm continues to build out its capabilities in Bermuda and the ILS market.
Duda joined the team on June 1, 2022.
Duda joins from Markel, where he led the retrocessional portfolio management team and was a key figure in the launch of Lodgepine Capital Management, Markel’s retrocessional ILS fund. Prior to Markel, Duda was a portfolio manager for Logic Reinsurance in Toronto and held roles at Guy Carpenter, Benfield (then Aon Benfield) and Zurich Insurance Group. In his new role, Duda will focus on developing Miller’s business in the Bermudian market.
The appointment continues Miller’s investment in the region and follows the recent launch of its Bermuda platform in March 2021 and subsequent hires, including Charlie Simpson as head of Bermuda and Erik Manning as head of ILS.
Howden LatAm Hires Hernandez as Regional General Counsel, Brazil Exec Chair
Howden, the London-based insurance broker, announced the appointment of Andoni Hernandez as regional general counsel for Howden’s Latin America region, and executive chairman in Brazil, effective June 1.
Hernandez brings more than 20 years of experience to this role as an M&A adviser and governance expert in several jurisdictions, enabling Howden to continue to grow across LatAm, which currently consists of operations in Brazil, Mexico, Colombia and Chile.
Most recently, Hernandez was co-head of the Iberoamerican Practice at Demarest Advogados.
“Andoni joins Howden after spending several years acting as outside counsel and trusted adviser in strategic matters for Howden LatAm, helping us to achieve our growth aspirations in the region,” commented Sonia Caamaño and Pablo Bores, co-CEOs of Howden LatAm.
“We already have solid foundations across LatAm, and will continue to grow organically while pursuing targeted M&A,” they continued.
Aon Appoints Parsons as Strategic Growth Leader of UK Capital Advisory
Insurance broker Aon plc named Joanna Parsons as strategic growth leader of UK Capital Advisory within the firm’s Reinsurance Solutions.
Based in London, Parsons brings a wealth of experience as a corporate broker and equity analyst, having held senior roles at banks RBS, ABN Amro and HSBC, while gaining significant experience in the insurance sector – particularly with regard to Lloyd’s of London. She joins Aon from Claypole Partners, where she was founder and director, advising firms on strategic planning, process improvement and investor relations to help ensure their sustainable business growth.
In her new role, Parsons will use her expertise and experience to help understand the equity valuation impact of different growth, capital and reinsurance strategies and drive a wider strategic dialogue with clients beyond transactional considerations. She reports to Ben Love, UK strategic growth leader for Reinsurance Solutions.
“Our Capital Advisory business model is evolving to enable us to deliver an even greater range of client services to drive growth. Our central focus is to structure our business around our clients and to position ourselves as their trusted, strategic partner, helping them make better decisions. In this regard, we believe that Joanna’s expertise and experience will bring new insights and play a major role in helping to drive and develop the process,” commented Love.

Topics
Aon
