Asta, through its third-party managing agency at Lloyd’s, announced the “in-principle” approval of a syndicate-in-a-box (SIAB) to deliver a breakthrough insurance product that aims to accelerate the development of new therapeutic drugs.
MCI Syndicate 1966, supplemented by Lloyd’s consortia, is targeting commencing underwriting from April 2024 with a forecast annual gross premium written for 2024 of £75 million ($94.3 million), subject to the necessary final checks and processes from Lloyd’s.
(The SIAB model was developed by Lloyd’s to allow smaller, entrepreneurial business proposals the opportunity to establish an underwriting platform in Lloyd’s at a smaller scale and lower cost base, without the need for a physical presence in Lloyd’s.)
Syndicate 1966 will introduce to the biotech industry a product that insures clinical trial funding in the event a trial fails. Such an approach will use a new underwriting methodology and technology platform to assess and underwrite what was previously considered to be an exposure unsuitable for insurance.
Lloyd’s describes a syndicate-in-a-box as a market-facing syndicate that differs from a traditional syndicate in the following ways:

A SIAB can write less than £100 million gross written premiums in year one.
A SIAB can only write incidental exposure to Lloyd’s most significant catastrophe perils (US Wind, North American Earthquake, Japanese Wind, Japanese Earthquake and European Storm).
A SIAB should predominately write short-tail business.
A SIAB should have a projected net operating expense ratio (operating and acquisition cost) of less than 35% in its third year.