Coalition, the San Francisco-based cyber managing general agent and cyber-security firm, announced its cyber insurance and technology errors and omissions (E&O) insurance offerings are now available in Quebec.
Brokers can receive highly streamlined quotes for small businesses to large enterprises, Coalition said, noting that its risk appetite encompasses firms with up to $1 billion in revenue.
The company will distribute its products via brokers across the province through capacity provided by Lloyd’s and Arch Insurance Canada.
Coalition’s Quebec offering is in French, including policies and endorsements. Coalition also offers French-speaking broker contacts and support staff, as well as a translated website and support center.
Quebec brokers now have access to Active Insurance coverage that combines the power of technology and insurance to help organizations identify, mitigate, and respond to digital risks before they escalate into cyber-attacks. All Active Insurance policyholders have access to Coalition Control™, the risk management platform that alerts organizations to critical vulnerabilities and security findings within their attack surfaces.
Coalition first entered the Canadian cyber insurance market in 2020 and plans to expand its presence in Quebec throughout the remainder of the year.
Coalition officially began offering policies on June 20. More information about Coalition’s offerings in Quebec can be found via the company’s web portal.
About Coalition
Coalition helps businesses manage and mitigate digital risks before they hit. Coalition offers its Active Insurance products in the U.S., U.K., and Canada through relationships with global insurers, as well as cyber capacity through its own carrier, Coalition Insurance Co. Coalition’s Active Risk Platform provides automated security alerts, threat intelligence, expert guidance, and cybersecurity tools to help businesses worldwide remain resilient against cyber attacks.
Source: Coalition

Topics
Cyber
New Markets
