Greenlight Capital Re Ltd., the Cayman Islands-based multiline property/casualty insurer and reinsurer, announced that Simon Burton, the company’s chief executive officer intends to step down, effective Dec. 31, 2023.
He will be succeeded as CEO and a member of the board of directors by Greg Richardson, effective Jan. 1, 2024. Burton will serve as an adviser and provide transitional services through April 2024.
Richardson previously served as chief risk and strategy officer at TransRe from 2014 to 2023. Prior to that, he held strategic planning and underwriting roles and served as chief underwriting officer at Harbor Point Re (which merged with Max Re Capital to form Alterra Re) from 2006 to 2013.
Richardson graduated with a Bachelor of Science Honors degree in Mathematics from Purdue University, was a Marshall Scholar at Oxford University, and obtained his Master of Business Administration degree in Finance from the University of Chicago.
“Greg’s deep expertise in the industry and experience in a number of underwriting and strategic positions, makes him uniquely suited for the chief executive officer role at Greenlight Re. I am confident the team will capitalize on our significant growth opportunities with Greg at the helm,” said David Einhorn, chairman of the Board of Directors at Greenlight Re. “Greg is an exceptional leader, and the board and I believe he is the right person to guide Greenlight Re through our next chapter.”
Einhorn thanked Burton “for his leadership and dedication” during his tenure at the company.
“We are grateful for all he has done for Greenlight Re and wish him well in all of his future endeavors,” Einhorn stated. “We look forward to building on everything we have accomplished during Simon’s tenure as the opportunities that lie ahead appear more promising than ever given the favorable reinsurance environment.”
Source: Greenlight Capital Re