Tokio Marine HCC International (TMHCCI) has restructured its IT and Operations teams as it moves to the next stage of its growth strategy.
Since 2017, TMHCCI said it has grown significantly and to service and sustain this level of growth and profitability, the insurer has moved to simplify the structure of its IT and Operations teams and to elevate its strategic position within the business.
Des Burke, who led the transformation of the insurer’s technology and establishment of its architectural capabilities as chief information officer at TMHCCI, has been promoted to group chief operations officer.
Burke joined the business in 2021 from Lloyd’s and has over 25 years’ experience in operations and technology roles at large corporates in a range of sectors.
In his new role, he will have responsibility for areas such as Architecture, Technology, Data, Procurement, Business Transformation, Enterprise Change, Claims and Underwriting Operations. He will report to Barry Cook, chairman and chief executive officer of TMHCCI and will join the TMHCCI board.
As a result of Burke’s promotion, Nicki Tang, the current head of Technology Shared Services has been promoted to chief information officer. She joined TMHCCI in 2019 as head of Business Intelligence and has held a range of similar roles in various sectors over the last 20 years.
In addition, David Fletcher has been promoted to chief analytics and innovation officer expanding his current accountabilities, while Nick Scully, head of Procurement, will take on additional accountability for workplace management (property and facilities) and travel, both also reporting to Burke.
“With this restructure, we now have all the key levers to support our continued growth in place, under one structure and one leader,” commented Cook.
“We have long recognized that technology and data are key to our future growth and this approach moves our IT, Data and Operations into a far more strategic position than they had been previously,” he added.
Source: Tokio Marine

Topics
Leadership
