Optio Group, the London-based specialty managing general agent, announced it has acquired a strategic investment in the Italian MGA, Heca S.r.l., for an undisclosed sum.
Founded in 2010 in Ortona, the province of Chieti in Abbruzzo, Heca has rapidly grown to become a leading MGA in Italy. Heca provides a multi-product offering and a fully digital experience with a human touch.
Heca is renowned for its cutting-edge, proprietary, all-in-one customer relationship management platform, which offers brokers and intermediaries the highest standards of support, said Optio. A blockchain policy verification service, the first of its kind in Italy, is also available to guarantee transparency and trust in every surety transaction.
The combination of Heca’s high-tech approach and specialized product suite together with Optio’s existing capabilities will create further opportunities for both companies.
The transaction follows Optio’s acquisitions of Netherlands-and-Brussels-based MGA Den Hartigh in July and, last week, Luxembourg-based, film and events specialist MGA the Circles Group. It marks a further significant step in Optio’s ambition to create a balanced buy-and-build platform, with acquisitions across Europe core to achieving that.
“The impressive growth of Heca, led by the exceptional vision of founder and CEO Emmanuele Menicucci and managing partner Nick Evers, perfectly encapsulates the kind of entrepreneurial business culture Optio is proud to endorse,” commented Deepak Soni, CEO, Optio Group, in a statement.
“We seek to remain a long-term stakeholder and intend to support them as they continue building on their ambition, for customers and partners. This is the latest important development in our European expansion strategy as we look to acquire and invest in entrepreneur-led, technologically advanced and innovative MGA businesses, with a strong proven track record of success,” Soni added.

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Insurance Wholesale
