This edition of International People Moves details appointments at three brokers: Lockton Re’s Cyber Practice, Howden’s Equine division and Guy Carpenter’s delegated authority unit.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Lockton Re Taps CyberCube’s Brew to Lead London Cyber Practice
Lockton Re, the reinsurance business of the world’s largest privately held independent insurance broker, has appointed Oliver Brew in a new role as Cyber Practice leader in London.
Brew began his career with Willis, and has also undertaken senior underwriting roles with Aspen, Hiscox and Liberty. Most recently he was part of the CyberCube leadership team. He has been a prominent voice in market forums and initiatives for over ten years and is a regular contributor to the key conferences.
Keith Harrison, International CEO, Lockton Re said, Brew will work closely with the team in London as well as the company’s experts in Bermuda and North America. “We see increasing demand around the globe for cyber advice and expertise and over the last three years have been building a best-in-class global cyber reinsurance client offering. Oli will be joining us in London during November and him joining Lockton Re is testament to our ongoing and substantial commitment to the Cyber Reinsurance space.”
Howden Hires Tysers’ Godfrey for Equine Division
Howden, the London-based insurance broker, announced the appointment of Mike Godfrey as executive director and head of its Equine division, part of its Sports & Entertainment practice.
This follows the recent announcement of industry veteran David Long as chair of the division, as Howden cements its position as the leading equestrian insurance intermediary.
With almost 40 years’ experience in the bloodstock insurance market, Godfrey started his career in 1984 with J.H. Minet. He subsequently joined the leading bloodstock team at Howard Global before the firm was purchased by Integro in 2014, latterly becoming Tysers.
Based in London and reporting to Duncan Fraser, global practice leader, Sport & Entertainment, Godfrey will focus on growing Howden’s bloodstock client base, with a particular focus on the United Kingdom, United States and Australasia. Howden is an established broker to the horse racing industry, arranging solutions for equestrian associations, racecourses, racehorse trainers, stud farms, riding schools and horse owners.
Howden is an official partner of Ascot racecourse. Its CEO, David Howden, is the founder of the Cornbury House Horse Trials, and has invested in British Eventing through the Howden Way, which encompasses a training program for young riders of all levels along with a young horse talent pathway program.
Godfrey will commence employment at Howden subject to completion of his contractual obligations.
Carpenter’s Delegated Authority Unit Hires 3
Guy Carpenter, the global risk and reinsurance specialist and a subsidiary of Marsh McLennan, announced it has expanded its capabilities in the delegated authority arena, with its GC Access team gaining three new hires and forming a new collaboration with Guy Carpenter’s Ratings Advisory Service.
Bryan Willingham, Alex Donkervoet and Nate Palmer have joined the GC Access team in the roles of managing director and co-head of the Southwest Region, senior vice president and co-head of the Southwest Region, and assistant vice president, respectively. Each will report to Matt Petka, president of GC Access North America.
Willingham brings more than 19 years of reinsurance experience, most recently specializing in placing treaty reinsurance for workers compensation and property/casualty insurers, and MGA programs across the US. Donkervoet has over 15 years of actuarial, reinsurance, product, underwriting and operations experience. Palmer most recently worked as a commercial lines wholesale broker specializing in financial lines and cyber coverage.
The GC Access team will work in collaboration with Doug Ostermiller, managing director, Guy Carpenter’s Ratings Advisory Service team, which advises clients on new and existing rating assignments as well as capital optimization, financial forecasting, stress testing and peer benchmarking. Ostermiller will assist clients in engaging A.M. Best for the purpose of obtaining a Performance Assessment for their delegated underwriting authority enterprises (DUAEs).
Guy Carpenter launched GC Access in 2020 as a dedicated offering to help clients capitalize on Managing General Agent (MGA) solutions in the rapidly expanding delegated authority market. The practice provides fully integrated and bespoke services in business planning, program carrier selection, capital advisory and modeling via a network of colleagues in North America, Canada, and the UK.

Topics
Cyber
Agribusiness
London
