Legal & Contingency Ltd. (L&C), the London-based MGA that specializes in underwriting legal indemnities and title risks, announced the launch of an insurance policy which will cover the installation of electric vehicle charging points in England and Wales.
The “Electric Vehicles Charging Site Title Risks Policy” is a purpose-built insurance product that aligns with the UK’s commitment to establishing 300,000 public charging points by 2030.
“This represents a step forward in title insurance within the renewable energy sector,” said Stuart Sigston, director of Products & Innovation. “We are proud to play our part in the UK’s push to deliver on a fully functioning charging network and to provide investors and operators with the confidence to commit to and deliver charging infrastructure at speed” added Stuart.
Coverage includes specific title risks identified from due diligence but can also be widened to cover all defects and encumbrances on a site-specific basis.
“As the UK moves towards net zero, L&C is committed to providing innovative insurance solutions that empower our insureds and their advisers to navigate and thrive in the evolving renewable energy landscape,” added Stuart.
Key features of the EV policy include:
About Legal and Contingency
Launched in 1992, Legal & Contingency provides legal indemnity insurance coverage for both residential and commercial properties. The company currently covers UK property valued at over £1 trillion.
Source: Legal & Contingency

Topics
New Markets
Training Development
