New guidelines have been agreed by marine insurers in the London Market to help improve collaboration in the handling of shipping casualties. A protocol document seeks to promote more effective communication between different parties involved in responding to resulting insurance claims.
It has been drafted by the IUA/LMA Joint Marine Claims Committee (JMCC) and the International Group of P&I Clubs (IG).
“There is clearly a huge benefit to all parties by having effective early engagement between insurers and shipowners involved in major casualties, particularly where pressing decisions are required,” commented Amy Dallaway, chair of the JMCC. (The JMCC comprises groups from the International Underwriting Association and the Lloyd’s Market Association).
“There are many advantages in understanding the concerns of all interested parties and this collaborative approach will result in clearer lines of communication and will assist in the efficient management of claims,” she added.
The guidelines for casualty liaison between the JMCC and the IG establish a high level structure to facilitate initial contact between London market underwriters and individual P&I clubs. They also outline minimum details that should be sought for each case. guidelines for casualty liaison
“The guidelines are an important step forward, providing a clear framework for property underwriters and the International Group of P&I Clubs to work closely together in the interest of the assured in a casualty situation,” said Ben Harris, chair of the IG Salvage Committee.
“By sharing information and knowledge we can ensure that all stakeholders are aware of what is happening and to the extent possible, there is joined up decision making that avoids delay and ensures the best possible response to a casualty, especially where there is a risk to life, property and the environment,” Harris continued.
Copies of the guidelines are available from:

Topics
Carriers
Claims
London
Casualty
