Claims services provider Gallagher Bassett (GB) International has boosted its size and offering in the United Kingdom by acquiring third-party claims administrator Claims Settlement Agencies Ltd. (CSA).
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
Established in 1990, CSA specializes in handling claims arising from corporate and personal travel, accident & health and personal accident insurance, and also offers medical screening and policy fulfilment services. CSA works primarily with UK-based London market underwriters and insurers, dealing with claims arising from incidents occurring in nearly every global travel destination.
Scott Beesley and his team will continue to operate from their current location in Hadleigh, Essex, England, reporting to Simon Pemberton, CEO of Gallagher Bassett’s UK operations.
“This is an exciting acquisition for Gallagher Bassett, further developing our services for current and future clients,” said Pemberton. “We are delighted to welcome Scott and the team into Gallagher Bassett’s growing global team.”
“All of us at CSA are looking forward to joining the GB family. This acquisition allows us to strengthen the business whilst creating opportunities to offer a broader range of services to the benefit of our existing and future clients,” commented Beesley.
About Gallagher Bassett
A subsidiary of Arthur J. Gallagher & Co., Gallagher Bassett is an international risk management services firm with more than 5,100 professionals providing claims management, medical cost containment, analytical and consultative services to its clients worldwide. The UK subsidiary is based in Chelmsford, England.
Source: Gallagher Bassett

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
Claims
A.J. Gallagher
