This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Liberty Mutual Re and H.W. Kaufman Group London.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Liberty Mutual Re Taps Aon’s De La Mare to Lead Australia/New Zealand Unit
LM Re, part of Liberty Mutual Insurance Group, has announced the appointment of Mark De La Mare to the role of head of Australia and New Zealand, effective October 2024.
He will report to James Green, head of Property, London, and John McCabe, chief operating officer, Asia Pacific. De La Mare will be leading the LM Re underwriting team based in Sydney, playing a pivotal role in LM Re’s strategy for the region.
The launch of LM Re Australia marks a significant development, replacing the ARUS MGA that previously managed LM Re’s Australasia portfolio, written through Lloyd’s, the company explained.
The new team will continue to build out Liberty’s existing business in Australia, and demonstrates our commitment and continuity to our clients, aligning with LM Re’s goal to provide direct and customised reinsurance solutions to our key markets.
De La Mare joins LM Re from Aon’s Reinsurance Solutions, where he most recently held the position of head of Property, Australia. He has held various roles at Aon since 2007 and has worked extensively with catastrophe risk modeling and strategic reinsurance placements. His comprehensive background across all classes of reinsurance in both the London and APAC markets equips him with a unique perspective and a broad skill set to drive LM Re’s strategic initiatives in Australia and New Zealand, the company said.
“We are very pleased indeed to welcome Mark to LM Re to develop and strengthen the local reinsurance presence we have built in the region. Mark’s deep industry knowledge and experience will be invaluable as we strengthen our operations in Australia and New Zealand,” commented Green.
He went on to thank John Bubb and Richard Wareham for their 14 years “of exceptional service at ARUS and contributions to our business. Their efforts have laid a strong foundation upon which Mark will build, ensuring a seamless transition and continued excellence in service delivery.”
H.W. Kaufman Names AIG’s Greensmith to Lead Int’l Portfolio
H.W. Kaufman Group, the Detroit, Michigan-based network of insurance companies, announced that Paul Greensmith would join the company in October as chief executive officer for H.W. Kaufman Group London, with responsibility for Kaufman’s operations across the UK, Europe, South America and Middle East.
Greensmith, who previously served as head of global specialty for AIG, will report to Kaufman Executive Vice President Jodie Kaufman Davis.
Greensmith’s career spans more than 25 years. Prior to AIG he served as the CEO of the Lloyd’s and UK company markets at AXA XL.
“Our London platform is fundamental to Kaufman’s global growth strategy and in Paul we have found a highly experienced and respected insurance executive recognized in London and worldwide for his depth of expertise, industry acumen and outstanding leadership,” said Kaufman Davis. “Paul’s role will be pivotal in deepening our operational and sector-specific functions, while aggressively hiring top brokers, underwriters, teams and market specialists.”
Additionally, James Stevenson will transition from managing director of H.W. Kaufman Group London to a new role as executive chairman. Since joining Kaufman nearly 15 years ago following the company’s acquisition of Chesterfield, Stevenson has been responsible for broadening Kaufman’s global footprint across the UK, Europe, South America and the Middle East.
“In this new position, James will work closely with me, along with Paul and Kaufman’s executive leadership, to identify new geographies and acquisition opportunities that further expand the Kaufman brand worldwide,” added Kaufman Davis.
H.W. Kaufman also announced that David Peach has joined the company with responsibility for overseeing human resources for H.W. Kaufman Group London. Peach will work alongside Greensmith to elevate and expand Kaufman’s International infrastructure, including the implementation of industry-leading recruiting, retention and professional development practices. He comes to Kaufman with more than 25 years of HR experience throughout Europe and worldwide in sectors such as finance and fintech.
With Stevenson’s move to executive chairman, Andrew Thacker, Chesterfield executive director, will serve as interim managing director of Chesterfield.
H.W. Kaufman Group employs more than 2,000 professionals across the United States, Canada, Europe, Latin America and the Middle East. Founded in 1969, H.W. Kaufman Group includes Burns & Wilcox (US), Burns & Wilcox Brokerage, Burns & Wilcox Canada, Atain Insurance Companies, RB Jones, Minuteman Adjusters and Kaufman Institute. H.W. Kaufman Group International spans H.W. Kaufman Group Europe, Chesterfield, Lochain Patrick, Burns & Wilcox United Kingdom and Node International.

Topics
Aon
London
Australia
AIG
