Lockton, the world’s largest privately owned insurance brokerage, announced the launch of an Affinity Schemes business in Australia, New Zealand and Pacific.
The business will be led by Tanya Dasgupta who recently joined Lockton as National Manager – Affinity Schemes from Aon.
“In a digital world, customer needs and expectations grow fast and far outpace current market offerings,” said Paul Marsden, Lockton chief executive officer (Australia and Pacific Region). “SMEs are by far the largest employer and a segment where we can make a genuine difference through breakthrough innovations that meets their unmet needs.”
“In 2023, SME customers want more than a transaction online. People want to build a relationship with a brand and have a personalised experience. Our industry expertise and ability to build relationships based on trust and credibility will drive greater customer experiences. This is how we’ll be different,” said Dasgupta.
Dasgupta brings a wealth of knowledge and experience of nearly 20 years’ within the affinity SME segment and has an extensive background in strategic growth planning, developing customised digital insurance solutions, and spearheading distribution and partnership models across both direct-to-market and association groups. She has worked in senior partnership and distribution management roles with leading international broking firms across Australia and New Zealand.
Annie S. Pathania will be working closely with Dasgupta as Partnerships & Distribution lead, who also joins Lockton from Aon.
“We are not interested in commoditising insurance policies. Tanya and Annie bring to Lockton all the capability and know-how required to set the bar even higher for service in the SME space and create an insurance experience that meets and exceeds the ever-changing expectations of customers,” Marsden said.
About Lockton
With a 98% client retention rate in Australia, Lockton is a global professional services firm with 9,500 professionals focused on providing over 65,000 clients with leading expertise in risk management, insurance, and employee benefits services.
Since our foundation in 1966 in Kansas City, Mo., Lockton has grown to become the world’s largest privately owned insurance broker and 8th largest overall by helping clients achieve their business objectives through protecting their most valuable assets – their people, property, and reputations.
Source: Lockton

Topics
Australia
