The winners of the eighth annual Qorus-Accenture Innovation in Insurance Awards have been announced.
The awards, which honor the best ideas and practices transforming the industry for the benefit of insurers and customers, attracted more than 350 entries from 43 countries, with applicants ranging from start-ups to the world’s largest financial institutions.
Winners were selected across seven categories through a peer-based voting process combined with a panel of judges from leading global financial firms. Announced at a live ceremony in Milan on June 14, the winners of the Qorus-Accenture Innovation in Insurance Awards 2023 are:
“Since their inception in 2017, the awards have played a critical role at the center of industry innovation by recognizing and rewarding the best and brightest ideas so others can learn and grow,” said John Berry, CEO of Paris-based Qorus (formerly known as Efma).
“The insurance sector is facing ongoing and complex disruption, but despite this, continues to show remarkable resilience,” Berry added. “This year’s submissions offer rich inspiration, illustrating how insurers are broadening and diversifying their products and services to tackle disruption head on and exceed customer needs; investing in digital innovations; creating new ecosystems and marketplaces, and championing the sustainability imperative.”
Daniele Presutti, who leads Accenture’s European Insurance industry group, commented: “Innovation is foundational in creating the new business models required for the insurance industry of today and tomorrow. As carriers navigate volatile macroeconomic conditions, evolving consumer expectations and environmental risks, a strong digital core is a key driver for future growth and industry reinvention. This year’s Qorus submissions are further evidence that insurers are setting a new performance frontier for the industry.”
To find out more about the innovations and see the full list of winners and runners up, visit https://innovationininsurance.qorusglobal.com/ or visit LinkedIn at #InsAwards23 .
About Qorus
A global non-profit association established in 1971 by banks and insurance companies, Qorus (formerly known as Efma) provides members with a space for best-practice sharing and collaboration. Headquartered in Paris, with offices in Andorra, Bangkok, Bratislava, Brussels, Dubai, Istanbul, Kuala Lumpur, London, Milan, Seoul, and Tokyo, Qorus serves 1,200 financial groups in 120-plus countries.
About Accenture
Accenture is a global professional services company that helps the world’s leading businesses, governments and other organizations build their digital core, optimize operations, accelerate revenue growth and enhance citizen services. It employs 738,000 people who support clients in more than 120 countries.
Source: Accenture

Topics
InsurTech
