This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Marsh and Allianz Central Europe.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Marsh Announces Group of Promotions in UK, Global Placement Team
Marsh, the insurance brokerage business of Marsh McLennan, announced a series of senior appointments across its UK and Global Placement leadership team, effective Jan. 1, 2024.
Tom Davies has been appointed as Placement Leader, UK, reporting to John Donnelly, global head of Placement, Marsh, and Chris Lay, CEO, Marsh McLennan UK.
Based in London, Davies will work closely with Marsh’s Global Placement leadership to continue to develop placement solutions that challenge the insurance market to meet the evolving needs of clients. He will continue to be a member of the Global Placement Executive Committee and will join Marsh’s UK Executive Committee.
One of Marsh’s most experienced placement leaders, Davies is currently global CEO of Bowring Marsh, Marsh’s international placement business. He brings over 30 years’ experience of retail, and wholesale broking to the role, having started his career with Marsh in 1989.
Adam Russell has been appointed to the newly created role of strategy & planning leader, Global Placement, reporting to Donnelly and Kevin Meszaros, global data & strategy leader, Marsh Specialty and Global Placement. Based in London, Russell will support Donnelly in bringing together Marsh’s global placement and digital expertise to enhance the client experience through innovation. Russell currently leads the Portfolio Solutions and Digital Placement teams in the UK and brings over 18 years’ international experience to the role.
Winsee Cheung has been appointed portfolio solutions leader, UK, reporting to Davies. Based in London, Cheung will have responsibility for leading Marsh Portfolio Solutions, as well as the facilities and line slips placed by Marsh Specialty in the UK. She will work with the business to identify and design new portfolio solutions that add value to clients in the changing risk landscape. Cheung joined Marsh in 2006 and has held several senior positions, including her most recent role as Marsh Specialty Placement Leader, UK.
Jason Mills has been appointed placement leader, Marsh Specialty UK, reporting to Davies and Dominic Samengo-Turner, CEO, Marsh Specialty, UK. Based in London, Mills’ responsibilities will include designing and implementing the placement strategy across Marsh Specialty within the UK. Mills returned to Marsh in 2020 as UK wholesale leader for the Financial and Professional Liability (FINPRO) Practice, and is currently head of FINPRO Placement, UK.
“These appointments underline Marsh’s commitment to developing global placement solutions that are at the forefront of the industry and offer clients alternative capacity amid often challenging market conditions,” commented Donnelly. “These promotions are also testament to the breadth and depth of our industry-leading talent and expertise across the firm.”
Klingspor Succeeds Papanikolaou as CEO, Allianz Central Europe
Allianz SE announced that Nina Klingspor, currently CEO of Allianz Private Krankenversicherungs-AG, Allianz’s private health insurance business in Germany (APKV), will be appointed as the new CEO of Central Europe for Allianz Group, subject to approval by the relevant corporate bodies.
Her appointment is effective on Jan. 1, 2024.
Allianz Central Europe is a regional entity with responsibility for Allianz national businesses in 11 countries in Central and Eastern Europe. She will succeed Petros Papanikolaou who will be appointed as the new CEO of Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty SE (AGCS), with additional responsibility for leading Allianz Commercial globally, subject to regulatory approval. (See related article on Papanikolaou’s promotion).
Klingspor joined APKV in 2019 and shaped a strategy and culture that has produced outstanding financial results and customer loyalty, achieving new levels of technical excellence and business development. She will be succeeded by Jan Esser, whose appointment is also subject to approval by the relevant corporate bodies.
Prior to being named CEO of APKV, Klingspor was CFO of AGCS for four years, and served as head of office for Allianz SE CEO Michael Diekmann from 2012 to 2015.
She joined the company in 2000 as chief of staff to the CEO of Allianz Global Investors and went on serve in roles including head of Marketing and head of Third-Party Distribution in Germany. She started her career at the Landesbank Baden Württemberg (LBBW), where she worked in both Stuttgart and Beijing, overseeing credit risk for Asian financial institutions and helping to build LBBW’s German Center Beijing. She holds a degree in economics from the University of Trier and studied Chinese in Taiwan.
“I want to thank Petros for the outstanding work he has done at Allianz Central Europe, his establishment of the regional entity and his successful transformation of the regional model,” commented Klaus-Peter Roehler, member of the Allianz SE Board of Management.
“Nina is ideally suited to take on Petros role and drive our regional integrated strategy in the Central European region: Her proximity to sales, her financial knowledge, and her understanding for technical excellence as well as her teamplay are outstanding. With her personality and her skills, the Central European region will have a strong leader.”

Topics
Europe
Allianz
