This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Zurich Insurance, Arch Insurance and Liberty Specialty Markets.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Zurich Promotes Fritz to CEO Zurich Nordic
Zurich Insurance has appointed Mattias Fritz, currently Nordic chief underwriting officer, to the role of CEO Zurich Nordic, effective Nov. 1, 2023.
In his new role, Fritz will be leading about 200 colleagues in Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden and ensuring alignment with the group’s global strategy.
He succeeds Dirk De Nil who has taken on the role of global head of Zurich Resilience Solutions. Fritz will be based in Stockholm and will report to Sierra Signorelli, CEO Commercial Insurance.
Fritz has over 17 years of industry experience with large, multinational insurance companies. He joined Zurich in 2021 as Nordic chief underwriting officer.
Arch Insurance Taps Cyber U/Ws From Tokio Marine and AIG
Arch Insurance has appointed Jose Carlos Jiménez Fernández and Rafael Ortiz Losada as senior cyber underwriters, effective immediately.
Jiménez Fernández and Ortiz Losada join Dublin-based Arch Insurance (EU) dac, which provides specialist property/casualty insurance solutions within the European Union.
Based in Madrid, they will be responsible for growing Arch’s European cyber insurance portfolio, writing primary and excess coverage across a broad range of sectors including energy & utilities, financial institutions and manufacturing. They will have a territorial focus on Spain and Portugal.
With a wealth of experience within the cyber field, Jiménez Fernández joins Arch from Tokio Marine HCC where he was most recently cyber manager for Southern Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and Latin America. Prior to this, he was a senior cyber underwriter at AIG and has also held cyber risk management and security roles at Deloitte, PwC and EY.
Ortiz Losada also brings to the role extensive knowledge of the cyber insurance market in the region. He joins from AIG where he was most recently a senior cyber underwriter, based in Madrid. Prior to this, he worked at Deloitte for over five years, rising to the position of senior consultant, Cyber Risk.
“Jose and Rafael’s combined cyber security expertise, local market knowledge and breadth of relationships make them ideal appointments as we open our operations in Spain,” commented Matthew Brophy, chief underwriting officer of Arch Insurance (EU) dac. “We see considerable opportunity to expand our cyber proposition for our brokers in Europe as well as strengthen our overall position in the insurance market across the region. In their new roles, Jose and Rafael will play a central role in facilitating this.”
Liberty Names RSA’s Furlan as Head of Casualty, Europe
Liberty Specialty Markets (LSM), part of Liberty Mutual Insurance Group, announced the appointment of Marilyne Furlan as head of Casualty, Europe, effective December 2023.
She will report to Pierre-Edouard Fraigneau, chief underwriting officer, LSM, Europe, and will be an active member of both the European Underwriting Management Team and Liberty’s Casualty Global Product Board. Furlan will be based in Paris.
Furlan joins LSM from RSA where she has held several casualty management roles. She was most recently head of Liability Lines for Europe.
Furlan is replacing Katja Bobrowski who will be retiring in February 2024. They will work together to ensure a seamless transition for LSM’s clients and brokers in the region. In her new role, Furlan will be responsible for ensuring sustainable growth across casualty lines in Europe and will provide oversight and leadership on LSM’s casualty underwriting strategy and product offering.
“We thank Katja for her instrumental support in building and leading our European casualty book and wish her the best in her retirement,” commented Fraigneau. “Marilyne’s two decades of industry experience will be vital in supporting our strategic growth in the region as we continue to deliver our global casualty ambitions across LSM. She has a track record of high performance in casualty management roles, and it’s great to have her on board.”

Topics
Cyber
Europe
Casualty
AIG
