This edition of International People Moves includes appointments at AXA XL, International General Insurance Holdings and MGA Aqueous Underwriting.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
AXA XL to Promote De Rosa to Head of Construction & Engineering, Reinsurance
AXA XL announced plans to promote Francesca De Rosa to head of Construction and Engineering, Reinsurance, effective June 1.
In her new role, De Rosa will lead AXA XL’s construction and engineering treaty and facultative portfolio for international and U.S. clients. She will be responsible for outlining and executing the portfolio strategy.
De Rosa, who is based in Zurich, succeeds Toni Vukadinovic.
De Rosa has more than 15 years of underwriting experience in downstream energy, property and engineering in both insurance and reinsurance, across Europe, the Middle East and Africa, Asia Pacific and Latin America.
Most recently, she held the position of underwriting manager and deputy head of Construction/Engineering Treaty and Facultative. She has held progressively senior roles since joining AXA XL (then Catlin) in 2011. Prior to this, she held a variety of underwriting positions at various companies in the industry, including Infrassure, Munich Re Italia Spa, and Zurich Insurance Company.
De Rosa is also a member of the executive committee of the International Association of Engineering Insurance – and leader of the Statistics Permanent Working Group.
Bertrand Romagne, chief executive, Europe, and chief underwriting officer for Property and Casualty, Reinsurance, thanked Vukadinovic “for his valuable contributions to the business” and wished him well for the future.
“The construction industry has faced huge disruption due the global pandemic. Delays to projects, shortages of materials and a lack of skilled workers has brought and continues to bring new challenges to this industry,” Romagne added. “Ensuring we remain at the forefront of these evolving risks is key to us delivering on our ‘payer to partner’ strategy for our clients.”
IGI Appoints Arch’s Tsielepis as Chief Risk Officer
International General Insurance Holdings Ltd. announced the appointment of Stav Tsielepis as chief risk officer of the IGI group.
Based in the company’s London office, Tsielepis will work with the executive team with responsibility for administering IGI’s risk management framework including the exposure management and capital modelling functions across the group. He will report to Andreas Loucaides, chief executive officer of IGI UK.
Tsielepis, who has 18 years’ industry experience, joins from Arch Capital Group’s London-based subsidiary Arch Insurance International, where he was chief risk officer with responsibility for key projects such as implementing Brexit plans and working closely with regulators, including the Central Bank of Ireland.
During his tenure, he was a board member of Arch Underwriting at Lloyd’s Australia. Prior to his time at Arch, Tsielepis was an actuarial consultant for Towers Watson Ltd.
“With nearly two decades of experience, Stav joins us in a key senior management role at IGI, bringing a hands-on approach to international risk management and will help us continue to expand and execute our strategic objectives,” said Loucaides.
Established in 2001, IGI is an international specialty risks re/insurer with a worldwide portfolio of energy, property, general aviation, construction & engineering, ports & terminals, marine cargo, marine trades, contingency, political violence, financial institutions, general third-party liability (casualty), legal expenses, professional indemnity, D&O, surety, marine liability and reinsurance treaty business. The company is registered in Bermuda, with operations in Bermuda, London, Malta, Dubai, Amman, Labuan and Casablanca.
MGA Aqueous Hires 3 Underwriters: Redmond, Farman and Wilson
Specialist MGA Aqueous Underwriting has appointed three new underwriters: Louise Redmond, Debbie Farman and Liam Wilson.
Senior underwriter Redmond and underwriter Farman join the MGA’s professional indemnity (PI) team, while trading underwriter Wilson joins the e-trade team, specializing in package business for small-and-medium-sized enterprises (SME).
Redmond has more than 20 years’ market experience and joins Aqueous from BC Underwriting where she was senior PI underwriter. Previously she has held underwriting roles at AXA, QBE Europe and AIG Europe.
Farman also joins the PI team at Aqueous, from Square Mile Underwriting. Wilson joins the MGA’s e-trade team from Thistle Underwriting, and has previously worked at QBE Europe and Ageas.
Aqueous currently writes PI for a wide range of trades and professions while its SME package business covers material damage, business interruption, employers’ & public liability cover.
The appointments strengthen Aqueous’ underwriting team as it looks to grow its footprint within the UK market.
Aqueous Underwriting is a trading name of Aqueous Management Ltd., an appointed representative of Davies MGA Services Ltd., a company authorized and regulated by the UK Financial Conduct Authority.

Topics
Liability
Underwriting
Europe
Agribusiness
Reinsurance
Insurance Wholesale
London
Construction
AXA XL
