Canopius Group, the global specialty re/insurer, announced the opening of a new trading office in Melbourne, Australia. The operation will be led by David Mutton, who joins Canopius as casualty underwriter, APAC with immediate effect.
Canopius will initially underwrite casualty business from Melbourne and broaden its offering as the business grows, with plans already underway to make new hires in the coming year.
The launch in Melbourne marks a significant milestone for Canopius’ growing Australian business, providing a hub from which the business can serve the state of Victoria. The company already has an operation in Sydney.
A result of the group-wide strategic and operational planning process Canopius undertook last year, the Melbourne office will allow Canopius’ teams to make locally empowered underwriting decisions. Alongside the office in Sydney, underwriting out of the Melbourne office will allow Canopius to best support clients and partners throughout Australia, offering products that keep pace with the evolving risk profiles specific to each geography Canopius serves in the APAC region, the company said in a statement.
Mutton brings more than two decades’ experience to his new role, specializing in corporate and commercial casualty lines. He joins Canopius from AXA XL, formerly XL Catlin, where he held the position of senior underwriter, Casualty, for Australia.
“The opening of our trading office in Melbourne marks a significant point in our APAC growth journey. Melbourne provides an ideal platform for us to continue to scale rapidly as a lead carrier for specialty risk in Australia, while attracting some of the region’s top talent,” commented Mark Newman, chief executive, APAC, Canopius.
“I am delighted to welcome David into the fold. His leadership skills and relationships built over many years, combined with his strong technical capability and knowledge of the local market, complement our team of specialists and places us well to seize the wealth of opportunities in Australia,” Newman added.
About Canopius
With underwriting operations in Australia, Bermuda, China, Singapore, the U.K., and the U.S., Canopius underwrites through Lloyd’s Syndicate 4444 (managed by Canopius Managing Agents Ltd.); a U.S. surplus lines insurer, Canopius US Insurance Inc.; and Canopius Reinsurance Ltd, a Bermuda-based Class 4 Insurer.
Source: Canopius

Topics
Carriers
Excess Surplus
New Markets
Reinsurance
