This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Sompo International, Miller and CFC Underwriting.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Sompo International Holdings Ltd., the Bermuda-based commercial and consumer property/casualty re/insurer, announced a strategic reorganization of its Insurance business with four teams and four senior appointments.
Sompo said this new structure will ensure a consistent market approach and improve the ease of doing business globally with the company.
Effective on April 4, the following changes are designed to better support Sompo International’s insurance organization through its next phase of growth:
Michael Chang has been named global head of Customer and Distribution Management. In his new role Chang will expand on Sompo’s customer focus and global key relationships, reporting to James Shea, CEO, Sompo International.
Julian James will oversee the newly named EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) Region in addition to Commercial P/C oversight in Asia and Latin America. He will continue to report to Chris Gallagher.
Daniel Neo will lead the Asia Pacific Region for all P/C Commercial and Consumer Insurance in the region and will report to Shea.
Chris Sparro will oversee the newly created North America Region (known as Sompo North America), which will include all P/C insurance in the U.S., Canada, Mexico and Bermuda regions. He will continue to report to Gallagher.
About Sompo International
Sompo International Holdings Ltd. is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Tokyo-based Sompo Holdings Inc. With approximately 10,000 employees at Sompo International, 75,000 employees total worldwide, entities in over 29 countries and more than $36 billion in gross written premiums, Sompo Holdings is one of the leading property/casualty insurance groups in the world.
Miller Hires Martin for Sports & Entertainment Team
Miller, the London-based independent specialist re/insurance broker, announced the appointment of James Martin as account executive. He joins Miller’s Sports & Entertainment team on April 4, 2022, as the firm continues to invest in its specialist motorsports insurance services.
With over 30 years’ experience in the motorsports insurance industry, Martin joins Miller from James Hallam Ltd. where he was divisional director of the Sport team, responsible for London market placement and insurer relationships. He will work closely with Tim Nagle, who leads Miller’s motorsports offering.
Martin’s specialist skills include on track physical damage, liability and personal accident protection for team owners, sponsors and drivers. His extensive experience will complement Miller’s motorsport clients, who together have achieved over 800 F1 starts and more than 100 race wins.
CFC Promotes Berry to Cyber Product Leader
CFC Underwriting, the specialist managing general agent, announced the promotion of Philippa Berry to the role of cyber product leader.
With over a decade of experience in the London market, much of which has been spent focused on cyber, she has built up considerable expertise and insight in this dynamic area, said CFC in a statement. Having joined CFC in 2018, Berry has been the senior underwriter on CFC’s corporate cyber portfolio for the past two years, broadly responsible for the underwriting approach and product development of its cyber solution designed to protect large global businesses.
As cyber product leader, Berry will be responsible for ensuring that CFC continues to be the standard bearer in cyber insurance and that all aspects of CFC’s cyber insurance product suite remain relevant and fit-for-purpose. In addition to driving the cyber product strategy, she will also contribute to CFC’s cyber underwriting strategy and champion a variety of cyber-related special projects.

Topics
Cyber
New Markets
Leadership
