Reinsurance executives from Convex Group Ltd. and Swiss Re completed The World’s Toughest Row, a race from California to Hawaii, breaking a world record as the fastest mixed-gender crew in history to complete the trip in 34 days, 8 hours and 22 minutes. They finished third in a group of 14 teams.
The crewmembers, who rowed under the team name “Pacific Discovery,” were Theresa Patricios (Tia), Convex’s head of Investments; Cameron Parker, head P&C Structured Solutions Continental Europe & Africa at Swiss Re; Stuart Thompson, Swiss Re chapter lead; and Andrei Celovschi (Celo), a software engineer at Swiss Re’s iptiQ.
As the first-ever reinsurance team to row the Pacific Ocean, the crew spent a bit of time during their trip, 1,300 miles from shore, to symbolically sign a quota share reinsurance contract. “After some last minute, high-seas haggling, Parker and Patricios signed the treaty and further strengthened the relationship between Convex and Swiss Re,” according to a press release issued to announce the race’s completion.
Organized by “World’s Toughest Row”, the race began on June 12 in Monterey, Calif., with 13 teams rowing 2,800 miles to Kauai, Hawaii.
“This has been an arduous but ultimately thrilling journey and I’m immensely proud of my fellow crew members. Completing this race is rewarding enough, but to have set a world record is just astounding,” commented Patricios in the press statement.
“My vision for this row from the start was to unite the reinsurance industry behind a project which provides a unique and fast track opportunity for personal growth and shines a light on one of the greatest risks facing our industry – mental health,” said Parker. Watch the team after their arrival in Hawaii on YouTube.
Winners of the World’s Toughest Row were the four man crew of the Kiwi Fondue, which set a new record for this Pacific Ocean crossing at 29 days, 17 hours, and 29 minutes.
The Pacific Discovery reinsurance team is still working to raise awareness for mental health and donations of £100,000 for Mind, the UK mental health charity. Donations can be made via the team’s website.
The team was interviewed before their journey for Wells Media Group’s Insurance Flipsides podcast.
Top photograph: Team Pacific Discovery have completed the World’s Toughest Row – Pacific 2023 – finishing third in the race and smashing the World Record for the fastest mixed four to row the mid-Pacific. Andrei Celovschi, Cameron Parker, Theresa Patricios and Stuart Thompson rowed 2,800 miles across the Pacific Ocean in 34 days, 8 hours and 22 minutes. Photo credit: World’s Toughest Row.

Topics
Reinsurance
Hawaii
Swiss Re
