Hiscox, the Bermuda-based specialist global insurer, announces the appointment of Jon Dye as its new UK CEO, effective September 2022, subject to regulatory approval.
In his new role, Dye will be responsible for leading Hiscox’s flagship retail business in the UK. Hiscox UK has a track record of profitable growth driven by long-term broker relationships, a distinguished brand and deep expertise in digital distribution and algorithmic underwriting, said Hiscox in a statement.
Dye has held a number of senior roles within the industry, most recently as CEO of Allianz UK for eight years – leading businesses with a collective nine million customers. He also served as chair of the Association of British Insurers (ABI), between 2019 and 2021, and as such has driven industry collaboration on issues including the industry’s response to the pandemic, the Financial Conduct Authority’s fair pricing review and climate change.
“Jon is a recognised industry leader with solid CEO experience and a fantastic track record of building sustainable, profitable businesses,” commented Group CEO Aki Hussain. “I very much look forward to working with him as part of our group executive team, as we look to realise the vast opportunities ahead. I would also like to thank Stéphane Flaquet, our chief transformation officer, for caretaking the role so diligently in the interim.”
The Hiscox Group employs over 3,000 people in 14 countries. Through its retail businesses in the UK, Europe, Asia and the U.S., Hiscox offers a range of specialist insurance for professionals and business customers as well as homeowners. Internationally traded, bigger ticket business and reinsurance is underwritten through Hiscox London Market and Hiscox Re & ILS.
Source: Hiscox
Related:

Topics
Allianz
