This edition of International People Moves details appointments at brokers Aon and NFP.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Aon Promotes 4 in Global Reinsurance Clients Team
Insurance broker Aon plc announced a series of promotions in its Global Reinsurance Clients (GRC) segment, part of Reinsurance Solutions. The GRC team works with the firm’s largest insurer clients to navigate volatility, optimize capital and drive performance by harnessing the insights and expertise of Aon’s global platform.
Effective immediately, Dave Nicholson has been named head of GRC. Based in Boston, he is responsible for ensuring GRC clients continue receiving tailored insights and solutions, enabling them to make better business decisions.
Aon also announced the following promotions:
“I am excited to lead the GRC segment as we continue delivering data-driven insights, solutions and transactional expertise to these key clients. The team has shown enormous resilience in a dynamic market, and through the untimely passing of our beloved colleague James Buchanan,” commented Nicholson. “Carrying on this legacy is a humbling responsibility, and I am grateful for the guidance of our GRC chairman, Bruce Selby Bennett, as the GRC generates new opportunities for our clients and colleagues.”
NFP Hires Perkins to Lead N. America Trade Credit & Political Risk Practice
NFP has hired Andrew Perkins as senior vice president to lead its North American Trade Credit and Political Risk practice. This practice is responsible for developing solutions to protect clients’ accounts receivable and foreign investments and ensuring the safety of their key people.
Perkins reports to Guy Jolicoeur, managing director, Technical Risks and Specialty Lines, NFP in Canada, based in Toronto. (Parent company, NFP, the property/casualty broker and consultant, is heaquartered in New York City).
Perkins comes to NFP from Atradius CYC, where he served as vice president and commercial director for the firm’s Canada branch. He has 30 years of experience in the trade credit and political risk market, including senior leadership positions in sales, underwriting, account management, e-commerce and product development at leading underwriters of trade credit and political risk insurance.

Topics
Reinsurance
Aon
