This edition of International People Moves detail appointments at Aspen Insurance Holdings, Sompo International, and BMS Group.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Dyer Appointed Chief Risk Officer for Aspen UK
Aspen Insurance Holdings Ltd. has appointed Andrew Dyer as chief risk officer, Aspen UK, based in London. Dyer will join Aspen in November.
Dyer joins Aspen from the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA), where he was most recently head of Division, London Markets, with responsibility for Lloyd’s (society and managing agents) and wholesale company markets. He has two decades of experience in risk management, governance, and oversight for insurance.
Dyer will report to Richard Milner, CEO Aspen UK, with a matrix line into Jenny Kane, group CRO. He will be a member of Aspen UK’s Executive Committee. In his role, Dyer will ensure Aspen UK continues to be structured around a robust risk framework, with strong governance and that appropriate supervision and risk controls are in place within the business.
“Andrew’s appointment demonstrates the importance we place in maintaining strong risk management and governance arrangements, and our commitment to continuing to build strong and open relationships with our regulators,” commented Richard Milner, CEO, Aspen UK.
“Andrew’s deep understanding of the regulatory environment and impressive network within the insurance industry will be invaluable as we continue to build Aspen’s strong reputation in the market,” Milner added.
“Our Lloyd’s syndicate and UK business are a key part of Aspen’s vision to become a top quartile re/insurer and deliver value to stakeholders and investors, so I’m delighted that we were able to attract such a high profile and talented chief risk officer,” according to group CRO Kane.
Sompo Int’l Taps Walker From Allianz for Distribution Insurance, APAC
Sompo International, a leading global provider of commercial and consumer property/casualty re/insurance, announced the appointment of Alasdair Walker as regional head of Distribution Insurance, Asia Pacific (APAC).
He will be based in Singapore and report to Paul O’Neill, president of Commercial Lines, Insurance, Asia Pacific.
Walker joins Sompo International from Allianz, where he held positions in London, Johannesburg, and, most recently, Singapore as regional head of Distribution, managing a team across seven locations.
“Alasdair’s appointment represents a continuation of Sompo International’s expansion through high-calibre hires in the APAC region. His wide range of experience across distribution channels and product lines, coupled with his commitment to deliver superior client service, leaves him singularly well-positioned to further develop our network in APAC. I look forward to welcoming Alasdair to our growing Singapore insurance team as we accelerate our growth in this exciting market full of opportunity,” O’Neill commented.
Sompo International Holdings Ltd. is a Bermuda-based holding company and indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Sompo Holdings Inc.
BMS Names Hewitt as Head of Japan
BMS Group, the London-based specialist insurance and reinsurance broker, announced the appointment of Tim Hewitt as head of BMS in Japan.
Hewitt’s initial focus will be to broker insurance solutions for inbound-outbound mergers and acquisitions (M&A) activity as growth in the Japanese M&A market accelerates, and the need for complex risk mitigation tools for dealmakers rises.
Hewitt is a long-term resident of Japan and fluently bilingual in Japanese and English. He brings more than two decades of legal industry experience to his role. Prior to joining BMS, he was associate general counsel for Marelli, a global private equity firm portfolio company, after several years there in legal leadership roles. He also spent several years as a lawyer specializing in M&A transactions at leading law firms in Tokyo and Sydney.
The appointment reaffirms the group’s commitment to providing local specialist advice to its clients, said BMS. The company aims to establish itself as the preferred specialty insurance broker in Japan by helping buyers protect their investments and sellers reduce their liability post-deal closure.
BMS has four offices across Asia: in Hong Kong, Singapore, Seoul and now Tokyo. The group will continue to invest in the region as demand for local insurance solutions heats up.

Topics
Allianz
Japan
