RenaissanceRe expects to incur about $750 million in losses from the January 2025 California wildfires—and anticipates that industrywide impacts should halt the drop in property-catastrophe reinsurance prices observed at 1/1.
Kevin O’Donnell, president and chief executive officer, referencing an industrywide figure of $50 billion for losses from the fires, said, “The industry losses we expect from the California wildfires are at a scale [where] we would expect them to affect supply and demand for reinsurance,” also noting that first-quarter 2025 will mark the third straight quarter of elevated catastrophe losses for the industry and the reinsurer.
Putting RenaissanceRe’s estimated losses at 1.5% of the industry aggregate loss, O’Donnell indicated that given the substantial “step change” in rates and terms that occurred two years ago, and the strength of the reinsurer’s capital position, the company is ready and willing to meet the demand.
“We have the appetite to continue providing the protection that our clients in states like California clearly need. In order to do so, however, property-catastrophe rates need to remain firm or even increase,” O’Donnell said during a fourth-quarter 2024 earnings conference call.
“The California wildfire loss is a good example of the value of our approach to the step change. The magnitude of loss we anticipate paying is consistent with the tail nature of this event, and we were paid appropriately to protect against this risk,” he said.
David Marra, executive vice president and group chief underwriting officer for RenaissanceRe, explained the ways in which reinsurers like RenaissanceRe are likely to absorb losses from the wildfires—most notably through catastrophe excess-of-loss towers, where wildfire is a covered peril. The wildfire losses will exceed retentions for many nationwide insurers, he said, noting that they could even exhaust the towers of some California-specific insurers.
“Should that happen, some treaty language may allow insurers to treat the fires as two separate events. However, were they to do so, they would need to take two retentions,” he said. 




Other possible impacts to property reinsurers will come through reinsurance treaties that cover assessments related to the California FAIR plan and through quota-share and per-risk treaties that might respond to large losses for high-value homes and commercial properties. In addition, there could be losses to the casualty reinsurance market through third-party liability claims or specialty claims related to collectibles and fine arts.
“At the upcoming renewals, we will be ready to deploy capacity, but only if prices are commensurate with the additional risk we will assume,” Marra said, echoing O’Donnell.
Marra also gave insight into the reinsurance rate changes that occurred at 1/1, and the difference between the cedents that come to market at midyear vs. 1/1, noting that more loss-impacted accounts are up for renewal later in the year.
“The second-quarter renewals are a mix of Florida, nationwide and California-specific [insurers]. Only a relatively small portion of the pure U.S.-exposed accounts renew at 1/1. So, most of those are to come in the second quarter and will be loss-impacted.” “Insurers made good progress in the quarter by accelerating rate increases and improving their claims handling and defense against an aggressive plaintiffs bar. We are optimistic insurers will continue to improve in 2025, which should have a positive effect on the profitability of future underwriting years while also benefiting prior-year claims” – David Marra, RenaissanceRe. 
RenaissanceRe experienced rate reductions of around 8% at Jan. 1, “with top layers down more and bottom layers down less,” while retentions and terms remained stable. Early in the renewal period, rates were more flat,” Marra reported. “But as supply got pushed into the market, rates started to come under more pressure. There wasn’t much differentiation of loss-impacted accounts because they are far fewer of the 1/1s,” he said.
“We think that will reverse,” he said, referring to the competitive downward pressure on rates. “We’ll see better opportunities going into the second-quarter renewals,” he predicted.
(Editor’s Note: Although rates dropped at 1/1, Marra said that RenaissanceRe grew lines on some targeted accounts, which will keep its premium volume for property-cat flat for the period.)
In fact, Marra noted that 75% of the reinsurer’s U.S. property-catastrophe accounts renew over the next six months—and most are loss impacted.

“We were already expecting about $10 billion in new demand coming to the market this year. We now expect this demand to increase as companies’ review their reinsurance needs and likely purchase backup covers for the remainder of the year,” he stated.
 Why $50B Loss Estimate?
At several points during the conference call, RenaissanceRe executives described their calculation of the $50 billion estimate for wildfire losses across the industry, noting that it has a higher degree of uncertainty than estimates of past catastrophes.
CEO Kevin O’Donnell said the reinsurer typically uses a ground-up process to estimate its share of losses from catastrophes, going through the books account by account, talking to impacted clients, then checking against RenaissanceRe models to make an independent assessment. In this case, however, with limited access to the areas given the recency of the event, there’s less primary company information.
“We think $50 billion is a reasonable estimate with the information that has been given to us to date, and with the modeling that we have done,” he said. “Still, there is a greater probability of variability from this $50 billion than what we would normally produce,” O’Donnell said, reporting that RenaissanceRe “sensitivity-tested” its likely losses and believes that its share of industry losses will stay at 1.5% even if the ultimate industry losses are above or below $50 billion. 