Swiss Re announced that Ivan Gonzalez has been appointed CEO Reinsurance China and China country president with effect from July 1, 2022. He will relocate from New York to Beijing.
Katie McGrath will succeed Ivan as regional CEO for Swiss Re Corporate Solutions in North America. She will be based in New York. Both appointments are subject to regulatory approvals.
Gonzalez will have composite responsibilities for all reinsurance operations in China and serve as Swiss Re’s president in the country. He was most recently the CEO North America for Swiss Re Corporate Solutions, a role he held since 2016, offering innovative, high-quality insurance capacity and customised risk transfer solutions to corporations in the United States and Canada.
Gonzalez began his career in 2001 as a financial analyst with Swiss Re Capital Partners in New York and assisted in several corporate development initiatives, including the acquisition of GE Insurance Solutions. In 2006, he moved to Swiss Re Group Strategy in Zurich and was subsequently appointed as CEO Latin America for Swiss Re Corporate Solutions in 2011 out of Sao Paulo.
McGrath has more than 25 years of experience across multiple roles in commercial insurance. Since joining Swiss Re Corporate Solutions in 2019, she has been responsible for its Accident & Health portfolio in North America. A seasoned leader with expertise in underwriting, revenue and profit growth, integration and change management, product development and strategy, McGrath has also been an integral member of Swiss Re Corporate Solutions’ management team in North America. Prior to joining Swiss Re, she has worked in several senior roles in AIG in New York.
“Ivan has been instrumental in the repositioning of Swiss Re as a specialised risk partner for corporations in the Americas and we wish him great success in China. We are proud to have Katie succeed him, reflecting the strength of our talent pool and the stability of our management team,” commented Andreas Berger, chief executive officer Corporate Solutions.
Source: Swiss Re

Topics
Reinsurance
China
Swiss Re
