The hard reinsurance market in property-catastrophe reinsurance isn’t coming to an end at Jan. 1, 2024, but reinsurers are likely to deploy more of their capacity next year, broker executives said recently.
Dorothée Mélis-Moutafis, North American brokering executive at Guy Carpenter, predicted “hard but more manageable renewals for cedents at January 1,” crystallizing a theme expressed by other speakers from her firm and by leaders of various divisions of competitor firm Aon.
In the days leading up to the Rendez-Vous de Septembre earlier this month, executives from both firms said they foresee 1/1 renewals next year being more orderly than they were last year. But they also believe that primary insurers will continue to be stuck with lower layers of catastrophe programs than they were able to transfer to the reinsurance market before 2023. Capacity will increase only up top, they said.
From Disorderly to Orderly Reinsurance Renewals – What a Difference a Year Makes
“We are hoping that the reinsurance relationships that were severely tested between clients and reinsurers on the 1st of January [2023], to a degree, can be rebuilt and reestablished during the coming year,” said Andy Marcell, chief executive officer of Reinsurance Solutions at Aon, who admitted to being “quite critical of the way that we cleared as a [reinsurance] marketplace and served our customers” at 1/1/2023. Later in the year, throughout 2023, “the market was much more ordered,” said Marcell, who is also CEO of Aon Risk Solutions, predicting a continuation during the broker’s virtual “Reinsurance Solutions Renewal Briefing.”
 “Lower-layer capacity and aggregates remain highly constrained… Middle and upper layers were actually generally oversubscribed” — Dorothée Mélis-Moutafis, Guy Carpenter 