The Jensten Group, the London-based independent insurance broking group, has completed the acquisition of Origin UW Ltd., following regulatory approval.
Origin UW is a boutique managing general agent that provides commercial insurance solutions for SME businesses and professionals. Origin specializes in writing business for clients with a turnover of up to £50 million ($61.1 million). The company says it has one of the widest definitions of SME in the market, with the appetite to consider 95% of businesses in the UK.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
For the immediate future, Origin UW will continue to function as a standalone brand within Jensten’s wholesale division. All members of the team, including Managing Director Dawn Henderson, will remain with the group.
Jensten said this acquisition continues its strategy of acquiring high quality, entrepreneurial businesses with significant growth potential and leadership teams who put clients first.
“From the outset we knew Origin UW would be a great strategic and cultural fit for Jensten’s existing wholesale proposition. Dawn has built a successful, specialist MGA with a great reputation in the market. This is a fantastic addition to the group and will be of great benefit to our partner brokers and their clients,” commented Jensten’s Wholesale Managing Director Simon Taylor.
“We’re hugely excited to be joining the Jensten Group. We’re confident this step will allow us to make even more progress in providing excellent products and service to our brokers,” said Dawn Henderson, managing director of Tunbridge Wells, England-based Origin UW.
About The Jensten Group
Launched in 2018, The Jensten Group operates three divisions – Jensten Insurance Brokers, the Coversure Franchise network, and Jensten’s wholesale division (which offers access to specialist underwriting expertise and the London Market).
Now a top 10 independent broker, Jensten now places £320 million GWP into the London market. Jensten employs 450 people across 15 locations, and partners with 95 entrepreneurial franchise holders.
Source: The Jensten Group

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Insurance Wholesale
