The Insurance Development Forum (IDF) announced the appointment of Michel M. Liès as its next Steering Committee chair with effect from April 19, 2022.
He succeeds Denis Duverne who has been chair of the Steering Committee since September 2018. Duverne is retiring this month as chairman of AXA Group, a position he has held since 2016.
The IDF is a public-private partnership led by the insurance industry and whose members include the United Nations, World Bank and other international organizations.
“The IDF has made an outstanding policy and operational impact in recent years, delivering the first three country programmes under the Tripartite Agreement, as well as significant mobilisation of new resources in support of the climate and disaster risk financing agenda,” commented Liès. “This is due in no small part to the Steering Committee under the leadership of Denis Duverne and to the IDF’s working groups, our fast-growing membership, and our partners and supporters.”
Tripartite Agreement was launched in 2019 by the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ), the IDF and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) during the United Nations Secretary General’s Climate Action Summit. The purpose of the joint agreement is to support the development of risk management solutions for climate-vulnerable countries, said the IDF. The agreement has brought risk solutions to Peru in September 2020, in Colombia May 2021 and Mexico in March 2022.
“While some countries have increased their resilience to climate change, the urgency of the climate crisis calls for much greater speed,” Liès continued.
“This creates a critical role for advocacy about the importance of risk management and insurance in supporting development. In addition, the need for effective cross-sector collaboration to deliver meaningful change has never been more important and this must be a key priority in the immediate term,” he said.
Source: Insurance Development Forum