Ardonagh Advisory has acquired Rollinson Smith Insurance Brokers (RSIB), a UK community broker that operates in the Shropshire, Staffordshire, West Midlands and North Wales regions with significant reach in London as well as other areas of the country.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
RSIB was founded in 1974 and offers commercial and personal lines, with core products that include fleet, motor trade and commercial combined.
RSIB’s team of 26 operates from Telford, with an additional office in Colwyn Bay, Conwy, serving clients in North Wales. Managing Director Chris Hartley will continue to lead the business.
“Rollinson Smith is a fitting example of the kind of high-quality regional broker we seek to bring into Ardonagh Advisory. Chris and team are set to both expand our geographical reach in the Midlands and complement our existing service propositions,” commented Phil Bayles, Ardonagh Advisory chief commercial officer.
“Having celebrated 50 years of trading, the Ardonagh Advisory platform is the ideal home for the next chapter of Rollinson Smith,” Hartley said. “It brings significant opportunities for our longstanding team to grow and collaborate as part of a globally recognised broking collective and in turn deliver the very best service to clients across Shropshire, Staffordshire, West Midlands and North Wales.”
Ardonagh Advisory Broking Holdings is The Ardonagh Group’s SME broking platform comprised of Bravo Networks, Footman James, Hera Indemnity, Geo Underwriting, Lorega, Towergate, Towergate Health & Protection, Thompson & Bryan and Usay Compare brands. Ardonagh Group, the London-based independent insurance distribution platform, has a combined workforce of more than 10,000 colleagues and a network spanning 200-plus locations in more than 30 countries.
Source: Ardonagh Group

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
