Aon plc, the global professional services firm, has launched a Climate Risk Advisory team to provide physical risk diagnostics and advisory services, aiming to help financial institutions, public sector entities and firms with large real estate holdings to make better decisions about their climate-related financial risks.
To help clients meet their reporting and disclosure requirements, reduce risk and drive growth, Climate Risk Advisory will provide:
The team combines catastrophe and climate change models from Aon’s Impact Forecasting and third-party vendors, with analytical expertise from across Aon’s capital, climate, and credit, specialties. Drawing on a wide range of sources gives clients a highly informed and customized view of risk. It also draws upon Aon’s 14 global academic collaborations, whose emerging climate research provides an independent view of risk and informs the development of the firm’s catastrophe models.
Aon Realigns Leadership to Build Integrated Risk and Human Capital Capabilities
As climate change drives new extreme weather records, organizations need to better quantify the impact of climate risk, Aon explained, noting that more than 400 natural catastrophes caused $313 billion of damage worldwide in 2022.
Liz Henderson, previously co-head of Reinsurance Solutions’ U.S. Catastrophe Management team, has been named leader of Climate Risk Advisory, reporting to Joe Monaghan, global growth leader of Reinsurance Solutions.
“In launching Climate Risk Advisory, Aon recognizes how financial institutions may benefit greatly from the catastrophe and climate expertise, modeling and solutions we have developed and honed over several decades for the re/insurance sectors,” commented Monaghan.
“Financial institutions can now tap our ongoing investment in our Impact Forecasting models and evolving scientific research, which will help them to navigate volatility and build business resilience,” he added.
The Climate Risk Advisory team’s initial focus will be on financial institutions and public sector entities, which have an immediate need to understand their climate risks, Henderson said.
“Our team takes modeling data and brings it to life with approximately 30 years of experience collaborating with insurer C-suite leaders who manage these issues every day,” she continued. “Our advice goes beyond analysing the results of any individual approach, to helping organizations develop holistic climate risk programs that can navigate the inherent uncertainty in climate change to make better decisions on risk management.”
Aon said it has already deployed climate risk consulting capabilities for several organizations, including several large mortgage lenders in the United States. In addition to financial institutions and governments, Aon is also bringing these capabilities to companies in real estate, agriculture, and health solutions.
Climate Risk Advisory provides physical risk solutions that are complemented by Aon’s broader capabilities around ESG and the transition to net zero.
Source: Aon

Topics
Aon
