Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI) named a new head of Transaction Liability in Canada and has also promoted two executives in Europe within the claims and customer & broker engagement teams.
Chres Lee has been named head of Transactional Liability in Canada. Prior to BHSI, Lee was most recently M&A underwriting counsel at Liberty Global Transaction Solutions. She also spent eight years practicing M&A law at two leading Canadian law firms – Osler, Hoskin & Harcourt LLP and Stikeman Elliott LLP, according to her LinkedIn account.
Lee is based in Ontario and can be reached at chres.lee@bhspecialty.com
BHSI’s Transactional Liability team structures representations & warranties, tax, contingent liability and class action settlement insurance for companies throughout North America and around the world.
In a separate announcement, BHSI said it has promoted Ingo Lorber to head of Claims for Germany, Austria, and Switzerland (DACH). He was previously head of Property Claims, Germany.
Lorber has three decades of claims management experience, which includes leadership roles at other global insurers. He joined BHSI a year ago as the company deepened its service infrastructure in the DACH region.
In a third appointment, BHSI announced it had promoted Daniela Peeters as head of Customer & Broker Engagement in Germany. She was previously Customer & Broker Engagement manager for Northern Germany.
Peeters joined BHSI in 2023. Her more than 25 years of insurance industry experience includes senior level roles at both insurers and brokerage firms. She continues to be based in Cologne and can be reached at Daniela.peeters@bhspecialty.com.

Topics
Agencies
Claims
Liability
