This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Fairfax Financial Holdings, AXA XL and SiriusPoint Ltd.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Fairfax Financial Holdings Promotes Clarke to President
Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. has appointed Peter Clarke as president of Fairfax.
Over the past 20 years, Clarke has held the position of vice president, chief operating officer, chief risk officer and chief actuary. He is a member of Fairfax’s executive and investment committees, and he will continue in his role as chief operating officer.
“Peter has done an outstanding job for Fairfax in numerous roles over the past two decades, and fully deserves his appointment as our president. In many ways, Peter has been the president of Fairfax for some time now; it just took us a while to realize it,” commented Prem Watsa, chairman and chief executive officer of Fairfax.
Fairfax is a holding company which, through its subsidiaries, is primarily engaged in property/casualty insurance and reinsurance and the associated investment management.
AXA XL Names Lee as Head of Claims, Canada
AXA XL has appointed Sandra Lee as head of Claims for Canada. Lee, who has served as leader for the local Casualty Claims team, will now have oversight for all claims activity across property/casualty, specialty and professional lines in the country.
Lee takes on the new role from Glen Hopkinson who after nine years leading claims in the country, has been appointed to a new role within AXA XL’s global transformation team.
Lee who joined AXA XL in 2019, brings two decades of experience across casualty litigation, claims adjusting, and commercial liability claims. She holds a Bachelor of Arts in Criminology from Carlton University as well as the Canadian Risk Management Designation (CRM) from University of Toronto and the Chartered Insurance Professional Certification (CIP) from the Insurance Institute of Ontario.
Zurich’s Price Joins SiriusPoint as Head of Travel for A&H
SiriusPoint Ltd., the Bermuda-based global re/insurer, announced it has appointed Christopher Price as head of Travel for Accident & Health.
Price will lead SiriusPoint’s plans for growth into new markets and products across its successful global portfolio of travel business. He will oversee underwriting, distribution and strategy across the company’s travel book and work with SiriusPoint’s managing general underwriters (MGUs), specializing in travel insurance, to identify opportunities within the partnerships.
Price joins from Zurich Insurance Group, where he was most recently head of Travel & Accident, EMEA. He has previously held senior positions with ACE, RBS Insurance and Cornhill. He is based in London and reports to Stuart Liddell, global president, Life, Accident & Health.
“Chris is a highly-experienced, market-leading travel insurance professional. He brings valuable experience and product expertise to our global A&H Leadership team, and I am delighted to welcome him to SiriusPoint,” said Liddell. “We have ambitious plans to grow the travel book, to further expand and broaden SiriusPoint’s travel portfolio in other segments, and to work with our MGU partners to innovate in the travel insurance space.”

Topics
Claims
Insurance Wholesale
Canada
AXA XL
