Global commercial insurance rates fell 2% in the fourth quarter of 2024 following a 1% decline in Q3 2024 – marking the second consecutive quarterly decrease following seven years of rising rates, according to the Global Insurance Market Index published by insurance broker Marsh.
Marsh said the result continues the moderating rate trend first seen in its index in Q1 2021, which is being driven by intensified competition in commercial property insurance, a moderation of casualty rate increases, stabilizing pricing in financial lines, and accelerated rate reductions for cyber risks.
The UK and the Pacific regions again experienced the largest composite rate decreases during Q4, at 5% and 8%, respectively, while US rates were flat, following a 3% increase in Q3 2024.
Asia saw 3% composite rate decreases; Europe and Canada both recorded declines of 2%, while Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC) and India, Middle East, and Africa (IMEA) experienced increases of 1%.
Casualty insurance rates again were the only major coverage line to show an increase globally, rising 4%, compared to an increase of 6% in the prior quarter.
Global property insurance rates declined 3% during the fourth quarter, compared to 2% in Q3 2024.
“The softening of rates across property, financial lines and cyber are a positive development for clients, while the challenges in other areas of the market, particularly in US casualty, are acute,” according to John Donnelly, global head of Placement, Marsh, in a statement.
(Click on images below to expand them).
Other findings from the report include:
Marsh said the global property market remains sensitive to loss events, particularly the ongoing Los Angeles wildfires, which will likely affect aggregate catastrophe losses in 2025. 




* Note: All references to rate and rate movements in this report are averages, unless otherwise noted. For ease of reporting, we have rounded all percentages regarding rate movements to the nearest whole number.
Source: Marsh

Topics
Commercial Lines
Business Insurance
