Aston Lark, the London-based insurance broker that is soon to become part of Howden, announced specialist corporate insurance broking firm Braddons as its latest acquisition.
Established in 1994 by Steve and Catherine Solly, Braddons focused on the construction and real estate sectors, growing significantly from the privatization of British Rail’s infrastructure and expansion of private finance initiative projects into schools, universities, the National Health Service (NHS) and local authorities.
With a team of highly skilled professionals providing a full spectrum of insurance products and services, Braddons has since diversified into other niche sectors including recruitment, energy, transportation, life sciences, clinical negligence, fintech and financial institutions, serving a prestigious array of blue-chip clients.
“We are delighted that the Braddons team has chosen Aston Lark as their natural home. As our group continues to expand, our strength and breadth of capabilities in specialist corporate insurance and risk management gets ever stronger and this will be further enhanced when we become part of Howden,” commented Peter Blanc, Aston Lark Group CEO. “Braddons is a fabulous addition to the group, and we look forward to working closely with the team to continue to deliver the exceptional service standard their clients are accustomed to.”
“We place challenging and highly complex risks into the London insurance market. Evolving changes brought about by Brexit and continuous development of new specialist underwriting entities creates a need for us to seek a broader capability to ensure we maintain our ability to deliver solutions that offer the best outcome for our clients,” said Steve Solly, managing director at Canterbury, England-based Braddons.
“For two years we have sought a broking firm that can provide the additional strength to our business, with an excellent reputation for commitment to clients, a high regard within the insurance market, and professional resource to assist us to successfully meet our commitments,” Solly added.
Currently backed by Goldman Sachs but soon to be acquired by Howden (as announced on Oct. 13, 2021), Aston Lark has more than 1,700 employees across more than 55 offices in the UK and Ireland, 200,000 customers and more than £1 billion of GWP.
Source: Aston Lark

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
