French broker Verlingue, a subsidiary of Adelaïde Group and specialist in corporate protection, is continuing its external growth strategy with two new acquisitions that will consolidate its presence in the Grand Est region of France.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
Set up in 1997, the insurance broker Cabinet Depeyre specializes in consulting and management of complex business risks. Depeyre Solutions, created in 2014, is an underwriting agency specializing in business risks for brokers and general agents. The group has 23 employees for just over €4 million ($4.3 million) in commissions.
Cabinet Depeyre, which specializes in complex business risks, works with its customers to analyze, prevent and manage their risks. The Cabinet Depeyre teams have acquired special expertise in high-pressure sectors such as the wood processing industry, transport and logistics, manufacturers and traders of building materials etc., whether in matters of civil liability or property damage.
Depeyre Solutions, which will remain an autonomous entity affiliated to the Adelaïde Group, sells insurance solutions as a managing general agent for business risks, mainly in the fields of vehicle fleet, property damage and civil liability.
“With Verlingue, I firmly believe that our teams will be able to provide even better support to our customers and provide them with all the solutions offered by a company with which we already share common values and a vision of our role as a trusted partner in risk management,” said Jean-Michel Depeyre, head of the two acquired companies.
The acquisition of Cabinet Depeyre and Depeyre Solutions in France accelerates Verlingue’s 2024 strategic growth plan, after the purchase of RT Global Insurance in Portugal at the end of 2022.
“Verlingue has a powerful, sustainable and profitable growth strategy in place. In a consolidating business sector, being a family-owned broker with an ambitious and long-term vision allows us to map out great plans for the teams that decide to join our adventure. I’m delighted that Jean-Michel Depeyre has jumped on board,” commented Gilles Bénéplanc, CEO of the Adelaide Group and Verlingue.
With offices in France, Portugal, Great Britain and Switzerland, Verlingue works with partners in more than 100 countries. The Quimper, France-based broker employs 1,200 people — 400 of whom are based outside France — and negotiates €2.2 billion ($2.4 billion) in premiums on behalf of its clients.
Source: Verlingue

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
Insurance Wholesale
