Wildfires raging across western Canada forced the evacuation of 30,000 residents and cut at least 234,000 barrels a day of oil and gas production as companies shut down wells and pipelines.
A total of 100 blazes were burning Monday afternoon, with about a quarter classified as out of control. The province of Alberta declared a state of emergency, and evacuation orders were issued for communities, including some less than 100 kilometers (62 miles) from the provincial capital of Edmonton.
The fires are striking Canada’s main natural gas production region, including the prolific Montney and Duvernay formations, an area studded with wells and processing plants and crisscrossed by pipelines. The region also is a major center for light-oil production, and the disruptions have sent prices for some local grades of crude surging.

Edmonton Mixed Sweet’s discount to West Texas Intermediate narrowed by more than a third to $2.50 a barrel, the smallest discount since March, and Syncrude Sweet’s premium grew to $3.50 a barrel, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Condensate’s discount narrowed to $3.20 a barrel.
Wildfires are one of the most dramatic signs of climate change, with extreme heat and long-lasting drought creating the perfect conditions for infernos. Large areas of British Columbia, Alberta and Saskatchewan were gripped by drought through March, according to the North American Drought Monitor. Slightly more than 44% of Alberta was experiencing drought, the monitor said on April 22.
One community under evacuation order as of Sunday was Fox Creek, a major center for light-oil and gas drillers. Energy facilities and local residents were also being evacuated in Grande Prairie, provincial officials said.
Alberta oil and gas production has a history of being disrupted by wildfires, including a massive blaze in 2016 that shut down more than 1 million barrels a day of output from the oil sands in the province’s eastern region.
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is scheduled to speak with Alberta Premier Danielle Smith on Monday about the fire situation.
Below is a summary of updates from companies operating in the area:
–With assistance from Verity Ratcliffe, Brian K. Sullivan and Dave Merrill.
Photograph: Pipes carrying steam, emulsion, casing gas and oil stand at Christina Lake, a situ oil production facility, half owned by Cenovus Energy Inc. and ConocoPhillips, in Conklin, Alberta, Canada, on Thursday, Aug. 15, 2013. Photo credit: Brent Lewin/Bloomberg

Topics
Catastrophe
Natural Disasters
Wildfire
Canada
