This edition of International People Moves details appointments at insurtech BOXX Insurance, Hiscox and AXA XL.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Cyber Insurtech BOXX Canada Hires Beazley’s Baker as President
Toronto-based global insurtech BOXX Insurance announced the appointment of Phil Baker as president of BOXX Canada. Baker will also be responsible for delivering BOXX’s insurance strategy globally as its global head of Insurance.
Prior to joining BOXX, Baker headed Beazley Canada where he was board chairman and head of broker relations. Baker joined Beazley when it acquired Creechurch Underwriters, where he was president and CEO of the highly regarded MGA that focused on insuring risks in the emerging technology space. Before joining Creechurch, Baker headed the financial and professional lines business unit for Travelers Canada.
BOXX also announced the addition of Zurich Insurance and Hartford Steam Boiler as new insurance providers for BOXX. Baker will manage these relationships as well as cultivate new ones as BOXX expands into selected new markets and segments.
“Phil will play an integral role in expanding relationships with the insurance brokers that fuel our business in Canada,” said Vishal Kundi, BOXX’s CEO and co-founder. “Under Phil’s technical leadership, we can step up the pace to enhance and extend our insurance products to meet the demands of partners and customers we are seeing across the world.”
Williams Takes Role of Managing Director, Hiscox Guernsey
Hiscox Ltd., the specialist insurer, has announced that Mike Williams, divisional director of Crisis Management, has been appointed to the additional role of managing director, Hiscox Guernsey.
Williams, who is based in Guernsey, takes on the role from Steve Camm who will continue as a non-executive director for Hiscox Guernsey. He leads an existing team of underwriting and claims professionals with nearly 200 years of cumulative experience in delivering specialist insurance services for both corporate and private clients ranging from kidnap and ransom insurance through to insurance for fine art collections and classic cars.
Williams has held several senior roles across Hiscox London Market over the last 11 years including major property line underwriter, director of Specialty, and most recently director of Crisis Management, a role he assumed in September 2020.
Williams originally joined Hiscox in 2004, working in the retail business, specifically the Art and Private Client division, before leaving to join Lancashire Insurance Co. in 2007. He moved to Lloyd’s market with Pembroke Syndicate 4000 in 2010 and Hardy Syndicate 382 in 2012. He returned to Hiscox in 2013, working primarily in property and specialty lines.
AXA XL Names Wells Sr. U/W, Marine – UK & Lloyd’s
AXA XL announced it has appointed Matthew Wells as senior underwriter, Marine – UK & Lloyd’s, effective immediately.
In his new role, Wells will be responsible for developing and managing underwriting strategies for both renewing and new business within AXA XL’s marine book of business in the UK. He will also work closely with AXA XL’s team of risk engineers in supporting clients to navigate the challenges and opportunities that currently exist in the market.
Wells has spent 15 years in the marine insurance industry, having begun his career as an underwriting assistant at Mercia Marine (Underwriting) Ltd. in 2006. He later spent more than 10 years at Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty, most recently as a senior underwriter within their Marine Hull & Yachts business.

Topics
InsurTech
Excess Surplus
Underwriting
Tech
Lloyd's
Canada
AXA XL
Human Resources
