This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Howden and BMS Re.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Howden Appoints Marsh’s Howell for Multinational Client Practice
Howden, the London-based international insurance broker, announced it has appointed Morwenna Howell as managing director and global practice leader, Howden Multinational Client Practice. This appointment underlines Howden’s continued investment in expertise and its commitment to delivering the very best solutions for its large and multinational clients.
Howell joins from Marsh, where she has worked for the past 22 years, and currently holds the position of managing director and global service leader in their Risk Management practice. She has been a long-standing member of the Marsh leadership team, is head of Marsh Ireland Brokers Ltd. (Branch) and has previously held strategic client and team leadership roles across the UK and Ireland.
Howell will join Howden once her contractual obligations to her current employer have been discharged.
Howden said its Multinational Client Practice was created in response to a clear and growing demand from large clients, carriers and risk management associations for increased credibility and choice in the sector.
“Hiring Mo Howell, with her extensive experience, expertise and unrivalled reputation in the large client space, is a hugely exciting moment for us as we continue to build our Multinational Client Practice. It is yet more clear evidence not only of our commitment to the large client sector, but also that Howden, by attracting someone of Mo’s calibre, continues to be the natural home for the very best talent in our industry,” commented José Manuel González, CEO of Howden Broking.
Over the past year, Matteo Scagliarini and Adam Reed have built Howden’s Multinational Client Practice platform, aligning its specialty capabilities and retail client propositions across territories, he added.
Founded in 1994, Howden operates in 50 countries across Europe, Africa, Asia, the Middle East, Latin America, the U.S., Australia and New Zealand, employing 14,500 people and handling $30 billion of premium on behalf of clients.
BMS Re Hires Conduit Re’s Soria as Head of New Business Solutions, Co-head of Casualty
BMS Re, the specialty reinsurance broker, has appointed Erik Soria as head of new business solutions and co-head of casualty broking, effective March 2023. Based in New York, Soria reports to Sean Ryan, deputy chief executive officer, and will lead the development of BMS Re’s new business solutions team.
Soria joins from Conduit Re, where he has served as the head of US casualty since 2021. Prior to this, Soria was senior vice president of treaty casualty at SiriusPoint for four years. Soria began his career as a broker, working for Aon and then Willis for 10 years prior to moving into underwriting.
“Through his experience in casualty underwriting and his time as an intermediary, Erik not only brings a great pedigree to BMS Re but is also well versed in all facets of our industry,” Ryan said. “I am delighted to welcome him to the team, his strong technical knowledge and broad experience complements our business well and will contribute immediately to the continued growth of our casualty capabilities.”

Topics
Casualty
