Liberty Mutual Insurance has completed the acquisition of Malaysian insurer AmGeneral Insurance Berhad, which is expected to make Liberty Mutual the country’s largest auto insurer.
AmGeneral was previously 51%-owned by AmBank Group and 49%-owned by Insurance Australia Group. Liberty Insurance Berhad acquired 100% of the shares of AmGeneral, and AmBank continues to hold a 30% interest in the business through the shares it received as part of the deal.
As part of the transaction, which was first announced in July 2021, the prospective merged entity will enter into an exclusive 20-year bancassurance partnership with AmBank to distribute general insurance products. The AmGeneral and Liberty Insurance Berhad operations will, at a subsequent date, be formally merged, at which time it is expected that the combined entity will become the largest auto insurer and a leading general insurer in Malaysia.
“The acquisition of and subsequent merger with AmGeneral is instrumental in our aspiration to become a leading global property and casualty insurance company,” said Jim MacPhee, president, Global Retail Markets at Liberty Mutual Insurance.
“Together, we will help people embrace today and confidently pursue tomorrow so that individuals and businesses in Malaysia grow and win together. Combining Liberty’s global capabilities with the strong team driving a well-respected and valued AmGeneral franchise will create a best-in-class insurance operation,” MacPhee added.
AmGeneral serves the Malaysian insurance market through approximately 1,400 employees at 33 branch locations. A top-three motor insurer with a growing business in additional product lines, the company distributes its personal and commercial insurance products under the AmAssurance and Kurnia brands through more than 6,000 agents, brokers, car dealers, franchises and affinity partners, and its fast-growing digital and direct capabilities.
Source: Liberty Mutual Insurance

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Carriers
