United Insurance Brokers (UIB), the London-based re/insurance broker, announced the formation of its Corporate & Capital Risks practice. This announcement comes after UIB restructured its Specialty Lines Division this month and continued to develop its multi-line suite of specialist products.
The practice, which is led by James Wilson, is a multi-disciplined offering that provides the full spectrum of insurance solutions to help navigate the complex environment of today’s business world, said UIB in a statement.
The team will work within UIB’s Specialty Lines Division, recently rebranded from “Non-Marine division,” which is led by Co-Heads Chris Townley and Julian Ball. The decision to rename the division reflects the enhanced offering to UIB’s global client portfolio and will boost the promotion of the team’s diverse product suite.
“UIB, by unifying one team of professionals working across a variety of specialist lines, can provide a complete and unique intermediary service for our clients,” commented James Wilson, head of Corporate & Capital Risks.
“Typically, these very different classes of insurance are split over several divisions in the insurance broking profession. However, by working as one specialist unit, we can identify risk and structure a range of insurance policies tailored to each client’s specific and various risk management requirements,” Wilson added.
The Corporate & Capital Risks practice caters to all corporate and capital concerns, including executive, professional, and general liability, as well as more specialist solutions for transaction-related risks, real estate and environmental liabilities; and cyber, media and technology exposures.
After the restructure, UIB Specialty Lines Division now consists of four business units. These are Crisis Management, Corporate & Capital Risks practice, Direct & Facultative Property, and International Liability.
UIB has also recently appointed two new experts within the Corporate and Capital Risks team. Nikhil Shah has joined as an associate director in Transactional Risks and Emeka Cole as a senior broker in Cyber, Media & Tech Risks within the new practice.
“Restructuring the division is an exciting opportunity for us to create a centre of excellence for UIB’s global portfolio. Unlike traditional mono-line specialty teams, we have expanded our specialist expertise to encapsulate multi-line and multi-territory classes of business which fit our clients’ ever-changing needs and risk appetite,” said Chris Townley and Julian Ball, UIB Co-Heads of Specialty Lines Division.
Source: United Insurance Brokers (UIB)

Topics
Agencies
Excess Surplus
