This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Howden, Tokio Marine Kiln (TMK), and Marsh Norway.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Howden Appoints Industry Veteran Long to Lead Equine Division
Howden, the London-based broker, announced the appointment of David Long as chairman of its Equine division, part of its Sports & Entertainment practice.
With almost 40 years’ experience in the bloodstock insurance market, Long started his career in 1984 with Harrison Horncastle. In 1999, he was a founder of Howard Global Ltd., a specialist bloodstock and equine broker, which grew to become the largest single bloodstock insurance broker in the London market, and which set up Galileo Underwriting Agency LLP, a specialist bloodstock managing general agent (MGA) backed by Swiss Re and SCOR.
Based in London and reporting to Duncan Fraser, global practice leader, Sport & Entertainment, Long will focus on growing Howden’s bloodstock client base, with a particular focus on the United Kingdom, United States and Australasia. Howden’s Equine team is the only London-based broker that offers the whole suite of equine products to the market, including commercial liability and property products.
Howden is an official partner of Ascot racecourse, and is an established insurance broker to the horse racing industry, arranging specialist equine insurance solutions for equestrian associations, racecourses, racehorse trainers, stud farms, riding schools and horse owners.
David Howden, CEO, is also the founder of the Cornbury House Horse Trials, and has invested in British Eventing through the Howden Way, which encompasses a training program for young riders of all levels along with a young horse talent pathway program.
“With its strong association with the equestrian world, commitment to client and insurer relationships, industry leading claims service, global footprint and data & analytics capability, Howden is a true differentiator in the Equine market, and was the only organization I wanted to come out of retirement to join,” commented Long. “I’m looking forward to working with the team, building on the existing book of clients, and identifying further opportunities to grow.”
TMK Hires Beazley’s Shastri as Life Sciences Specialist
Tokio Marine Kiln (TMK), the specialist international insurer, announced the appointment of Kirsten Shastri as its first head of Life Sciences.
Reporting to Departmental Head of Liability Chris Jones, Shastri will underwrite a range of life sciences risks including traditional medical device and pharmaceutical companies through to novel products being developed worldwide.
Coverage will also be available for products liability; professional indemnity; medical malpractice; public liability and clinical trials, alongside some nuanced covers currently offered by TMK. Further product developments are planned from 2023, with distribution focused through TMK’s extensive international coverholder network in addition to traditional open market placements.
The appointment follows the continued growth of TMK’s Liability division, which focuses on risks domiciled worldwide (excluding the U.S.), as it expands and broadens its portfolio.
With more than 10 years’ experience in insurance and a background in science, Shastri joins TMK from Beazley and has a proven track record in technology-enabled healthcare.
“I’m very excited and proud to be joining TMK – one of the largest international liability insurers in Lloyd’s – and to be bringing a specialised product to the market that responds to the innovation seen in the Life Sciences industry. I look forward to growing a specialist underwriting team and bringing a fresh approach to cover in this field,” commented Shastri.
Marsh Norway Names WTW’s Fagerli as Head of Specialty
Marsh, the insurance broker and risk adviser, announced the appointment of Nils Arne Fagerli as head of Specialty in Norway. Effective April 2023, Fagerli will be based in Oslo and report to Scott Ørmen, CEO, Marsh Norway, and Henrik Ryden, CEO of Marsh Nordics.
In his new position, Fagerli will assume overall responsibility for Marsh Specialty’s marine & cargo, energy & power, and construction industry clients in Norway, as well as overseeing the Financial and Professional Liability (FINPRO), Cyber and Trade Credit practices for Marsh in Norway.
Fagerli brings over 28 years of experience in insurance and risk management to Marsh Specialty. He is currently CEO of WTW in Norway, where he has been for 10 years. Fagerli also spent 16 years with Nordic insurance group Gjensidige in various roles, including head of Corporate Clients and Brokerage.
“Our clients are facing unprecedented challenges arising from wide-ranging issues such as cyber risk, climate change, and geopolitical instability. Fagerli’s expertise as one of the region’s foremost risk advisors makes him well-suited to lead Marsh Norway’s ambitious growth plans, and assist our clients in navigating the insurance market and mitigate critical risks,” commented Ørmen.
In Norway, Marsh has over 100 colleagues with offices in Oslo, Kristiansand and Stavanger.

Topics
Liability
Agribusiness
Willis Towers Watson
