This edition of International People Moves details appointments at NFP, Miller and Liberty Global Transaction Solutions
A summary of these new hires follows here.
NFP Hires Pelaez for Management and Professional Liability Team in Canada
NFP, the property and casualty broker, announced it has hired Juliana Pelaez as mid-market leader for its Management and Professional Liability practice in Canada.
Pelaez will be responsible for building out NFP’s advisory and insurance broking services model to help mitigate executive risk exposure for clients in the mid-market segment including, directors and officers (D&O), employment practices, fiduciary, cyber, and crime liability risk management programs.
She will report to Imran Pira, senior vice president, head of Management and Professional Liability, NFP in Canada.
Prior to joining NFP, Pelaez served as an account executive officer at Travelers (October 2019 to September 2022) and as the executive liability senior underwriter for AIG (December 2012 to September 2019), according to her LinkedIn profile.
In all, she brings more than 14 years of international underwriting and product development experience to NFP. Fluent in English, French and Spanish, Pelaez is a graduate of EAFIT University in Medellín, Colombia, and earned a specialization in International Business from McGill University.
“Juliana is an experienced subject matter expert with technical underwriting experience which will make her a valuable risk advisor,” said Pira. “Her focus on the mid-market segment with respect to management liability will include privately held and non-profit organizations across a broad range of industries including, but not limited to, manufacturing, real estate, transportation, natural resources, technology and construction.”
Miller Names AGCS’ Hooker as APAC Regional Head of Energy
Miller, the leading independent specialist re/insurance broker, announces the appointment of Matt Hooker as regional Head of Energy for Asia-Pacific. Matt will be based in Singapore and report to Nigel Cross, head of Miller Singapore, and Martin Henderson, head of Energy & Marine, Energy and Transportation Liability (METL).
Hooker brings a wealth of experience in successfully building market leading business development and client servicing teams within the energy sector, particularly downstream, power, construction and renewables.
He joins from Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty, where he was Asia Pacific regional head of Energy & Construction, based in Singapore. Prior to joining Allianz, Hooker had a distinguished broking career, predominantly with Willis on either side of five years at Marsh. He started in London in 1988 and following a spell working in Australia he relocated to Asia in 2000, undertaking various leadership roles throughout the region including mainland China, Hong Kong, and in Singapore since 2010.
Hooker’s appointment forms part of Miller’s wider growth strategy in the region and follows recent senior hires to the Singapore team, including Ron Whyte as head of Strategic Development and Nick King as head of Marine.
Liberty Global Transaction Solutions Hires 3 for APAC Team
Liberty Global Transaction Solutions, part of Liberty Mutual Insurance’s Global Risk Solutions division, announced that, as part of its growth strategy for Asia Pacific, welcomes three new underwriters to better service the warranty & indemnity insurance market in the region, as follows:
About Liberty Global Transaction Solutions
Liberty Global Transaction Solutions (GTS) is one of the largest global M&A insurance teams in the industry. With more than 70 specialists, it has facilitated over 800 M&A deals a year on average—successfully insuring thousands of transactions since our inception. GTS offers specialized products and services to help facilitate M&A transactions for buyers and sellers, including representations & warranties (R&W)/warranty & indemnity (W&I) insurance, tax liability insurance and one-off policies created for individual contingent risks.

Topics
Liability
Canada
Professional Liability
