This edition of International People Moves details appointments at AXIS Global Markets and Newline Europe.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
AXIS Global Markets’ Head of Underwriting Robson to Retire, Succeeded by MacGregor
AXIS Capital Holdings Ltd. announced that Alistair Robson, head of Underwriting for AXIS Global Markets, and chief underwriting officer of AXIS Managing Agency, has decided to retire. He will leave AXIS at the end of June 2024 after 13 years with the company and a 39-year career in insurance.
Robson joined AXIS in 2011 as executive vice president and head of Global Property, also serving as the first active underwriter of Lloyd’s Syndicate 1686. He was later promoted to chief underwriting officer of the International division and AXIS Managing Agency, before assuming his current role upon the formation of Global Markets in 2023.
“Alistair has been a driving force in establishing Global Markets as a powerful revenue generator for AXIS,” commented Mark Gregory, head of AXIS Global Markets. “Among Alistair’s considerable contributions to AXIS have been his integral role in the founding of Syndicate 1686 in 2014, the merger of the AXIS and Novae underwriting operations from 2017, putting in place a rigorous performance management regime, the regulatory approval of AXIS Managing Agency, and, more recently, the launch of AXIS Energy Transition Syndicate 2050.”
Robson’s decision to retire has prompted a series of promotions within Global Markets that will become effective on July 1.
Robson will work with the Global Markets leadership to ensure a smooth transition of his roles.
Newline Europe Names Beckers as Head of Cyber Liability
Newline Europe Versicherung AG announced the appointment of Johannes Beckers as the new head of Cyber Liability. In this position, Beckers will oversee and lead the development of Newline Europe’s cyber portfolio throughout the European Economic Area (EEA).
Beckers most recently served as senior underwriter at Zurich Gruppe Deutschland. He brings over a decade of underwriting experience to Newline and is also an accomplished speaker and author of numerous cyber risk articles.
“Establishing a Cyber practice in Cologne demonstrates our commitment to deliver local, specialized expertise to meet the needs of the growing global cyber market,” commented Bob Pollock, CEO of Newline Group.
Beckers is based in Cologne and reports to Wirtz.
Based in Cologne, Newline Europe is a subsidiary of Newline Insurance Co. Ltd. and serves as the EEA hub for Newline Group, part of Odyssey Group, which is a subsidiary of Fairfax Financial Holdings. Headquartered in London, Newline Group is a specialist insurer with operations in the UK, Europe, Asia, Australia, Canada and Latin America. In addition to Newline Europe, Newline Group underwrites insurance business through Newline Syndicate 1218 at Lloyd’s and Newline Insurance Co. Ltd.

Topics
Cyber
Liability
Underwriting
Europe
