This edition of International People Moves details appointments at AXIS Capital Holdings and Agile Insurance Group.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
AXIS Appoints Chubb’s Farrup as Head of Global Markets, Succeeding Gregory
AXIS Capital Holdings Ltd. announced that Sara Farrup (nee Mitchell) has assumed the role of head of Global Markets as part of a planned leadership transition, first announced in September 2024.
Farrup reports to AXIS President and CEO Vince Tizzio and is part of the company’s Executive Committee. She succeeds longtime head of Global Markets Mark Gregory, who will continue to serve as a strategic adviser to the company through March. Farrup is based in the company’s London office.
Farrup joins AXIS following a 13-year tenure at Chubb where she held a series of leadership roles with increasing levels of responsibility. Since 2021, in her role as divisional president of Continental Europe and MENA, she was responsible for Chubb’s property and casualty, accident and health, and consumer lines operations across 25 countries. Previously, she served in managerial roles at RSA and Allianz Insurance.
“In Sara, we have appointed an outstanding leader to guide our Global Markets business into its next chapter,” commented Tizzio. “Sara brings extensive specialty knowledge and a rich understanding of international markets, an established track record for success, and strong values that align with our culture.”
“On behalf of all of AXIS, I extend my gratitude to Mark for his outstanding leadership. We are grateful for all Mark has done to elevate AXIS Global Markets as a leading player, and I am deeply appreciative for his partnership and friendship,” Tizzio added.
Agile’s Lloyd’s Syndicate Hires AXA XL’s Hughes for London Marine Team
Agile Insurance Group announced that David Hughes, formerly AXA XL’s head of marine hull and war for the UK and Lloyd’s, has joined as head of marine and as deputy active underwriter of Agile’s Lloyd’s syndicate: Agile Underwriting Services Syndicate AUS2427.
Hughes has spent more than 25 years in the marine market in London, Singapore and Hong Kong, and more recently served on the joint hull committee. In his new position he will continue to be based in London, and operates with a global mandate and an A$10 million line size.
This development follows the launch of Agile’s Australian property team as it continues to expand to support its syndicate business plans.
Agile is an Australian insurtech insurance group originally established as a Lloyd’s coverholder in 2015, with 60 staff based in Australia and the Phillippines and writing aviation, accident and health, casualty, construction, cyber, financial lines, marine, property, and retail travel.
Agile’s May launch of its underwriting syndicate at Lloyd’s was followed by the approval of its Australian MGA as a syndicate service company and the establishment of additional operations in New Zealand.
“I am very excited to join Agile at such an interesting time to develop our marine offering, encompassing hull, cargo and specie,” commented Hughes. “Our intention is to become a multi-region, top quartile partner to our clients and distribution channels, driven by servicing, innovation and claims excellence. The solutions, talent and aspirations at Agile really are an enticing prospect for me and our marine partners.”

Topics
Excess Surplus
Lloyd's
London
AXA XL
Chubb
