Global natural catastrophes cost insurers US$50 billion in the first half, (H1 2022: $48 billion), with most of the losses stemming from severe convective storms, according to Swiss Re.
“Severe convective storms – storms associated with thunder, lightning, heavy rain, hail, strong winds and sudden temperature changes – caused US$35 billion (nearly 70%) in insured losses worldwide in the first half of 2023,” said the Swiss Re Institute report.
“This means that insured losses [for severe convective storms] are almost twice as high in a six-month period as the annual average of the last 10 years (US$18.4 billion),” which highlight the increasing loss impacts of secondary perils, Swiss Re continued.
Global Natural Disasters Cost Insurers $43B in H1, Surpassing 10-Yr Average: Munich Re
US thunderstorms cost insurers US$34 billion, or 68% of global insured natural catastrophe losses – the highest-ever insured losses in a six-month period. Swiss Re added. The report noted that 10 events each in the US caused losses of US$1 billion and above, compared to an annual average of six events for the previous 10 years, with Texas as the most affected state.
Other findings from the report were:
“With severe thunderstorms as the main driver for above-average insured losses in the first half of 2023, this secondary peril becomes one of the dominant global drivers of insured losses,” commented Martin Bertogg, head of Catastrophe Perils at Swiss Re, in a statement.
“The above average losses reaffirm a 5%-7% annual growth trend in insured losses, driven by a warming climate but even more so, by rapidly growing economic values in urbanized settings, globally. The cyclone and flood events in New Zealand in the first quarter of 2023 are testimonies of the risk to today’s large urban centres, continuing patterns observed in 2021 in the Germany flooding, and in 2022 in Australia and South Africa,” he added.
The effects of climate change are evident in increasingly extreme weather events such as heatwaves, droughts, floods and extreme precipitation, according to Jérôme Jean Haegeli, Swiss Re’s group chief economist.
“Besides the impact of climate change, land use planning in more exposed coastal and riverine areas, and urban sprawl into the wilderness, generate a hard-to-revert combination of high value exposure in higher risk environments. Protective measures need to be taken for insurance products to remain economical for such properties at high risk. It is high time to invest in more climate adaption,” Haegeli continued.
Photograph: Downed trees appear near a property with a damaged roof after a reported tornado hit the area Sunday, April 30, 2023 in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. (Joe Cavaretta/South Florida Sun-Sentinel via AP)

Topics
Natural Disasters
Profit Loss
Windstorm
Swiss Re
