This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Arch Reinsurance Co. and Willis Towers Watson (WTW).
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Arch Re Co. Appoints Former PartnerRe CUO Schriber as President
Arch Reinsurance Co. announced that Jonathan Schriber will join the company as president, effective Aug. 1, 2023.
Schriber will be based in the company’s Morristown, N.J., office and will have responsibility for Arch’s U.S.-based reinsurance operation’s underwriting portfolio and oversight of the entity’s overall strategy.
Schriber joins Arch from Partner Re where he most recently served as chief underwriting officer, P&C Americas. He has nearly 30 years of experience in the reinsurance industry, including senior roles at W.R. Berkley Corp., ACE USA and General Reinsurance Corp.
Peder Moeller, who had served as Arch Re Co.’s CEO, will be returning to Europe by year-end in a senior role to help advance Arch Re Europe’s strategic efforts.
“I am thrilled to welcome Jon to Arch Re. He has a wealth of industry experience and a demonstrated ability to deliver results,” said Maamoun Rajeh, chairman and CEO of Arch Worldwide Reinsurance Group.
“He is well-regarded as a leader, has excellent underwriting acumen and a keen sense for cycle management. I’m looking forward to Arch Re Co.’s continued success under his direction,” Rajeh added.
“I want to thank Peder Moeller for leading Arch Re Co. for the last several years and the work he did shaping our overall U.S. operations. I am happy he will finally be reuniting with his family in Denmark and am excited for our European team to benefit from his leadership and drive,” he said.
Arch Reinsurance Co., part of Arch Capital Group Ltd., underwrites specialty casualty reinsurance, including distressed lines of business.
WTW Hires Marsh’s Clarke as President, Risk & Broking, Garrard Named WTW Chair
WTW, the global advisory, broking, and solutions company, announced it is further strengthening its Risk & Broking leadership in order to enhance specialization, digitization and optimization capabilities.
Lucy Clarke will join WTW as president, Risk & Broking, in the third quarter of 2024. Upon her arrival, Adam Garrard will take on the role of chairman, Risk & Broking. The two will work closely to drive the continued growth of WTW’s Risk & Broking segment, which comprises more than 14,000 colleagues serving 140 countries and markets around the world.
In her role as president, Risk & Broking, Clarke will report to Carl Hess, and will be responsible for the day-to-day financial and operational management and growth of the business. Until she joins WTW, Garrard will continue in his current role as head of Risk & Broking and will become chairman upon her arrival.
Clarke brings with her deep industry experience gained through a 25-year career that has included diverse leadership positions with JLT Group and Marsh. In her most recent role, she serves as the president of Marsh Specialty and Global Placement. Prior to that, she was the chief executive officer of JLT Global Specialty, the insurance and risk arm of the JLT Group. Clarke graduated from Vanderbilt University and has worked in London since 1990.
“With the addition of Lucy to our strong Risk & Broking leadership team, WTW will offer an even more compelling value proposition as we continue to innovate and adapt to address our clients’ changing needs,” commented WTW’s CEO Hess. “I look forward to welcoming Lucy to the WTW team next year and know she will help us relentlessly drive our strategic priorities forward.”

Topics
Willis Towers Watson
