This edition of International People Moves details appointments at AXA XL and Trium Cyber.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
AXA XL Names Gerbaud as CUO for APAC & Europe
AXA XL Insurance announced that Adias Gerbaud has been appointed chief underwriting officer for APAC & Europe and XL Insurance Company SE (XLICSE), subject to regulatory approvals.
Gerbaud will be responsible for developing core underwriting strategies, optimising product offerings, and driving profitability for AXA XL in Europe, Asia, and Australia. She assumes the role from Etienne Champion who is taking on a new position at AXA Group as P&C Commercial Lines group chief underwriting officer.
Gerbaud joined AXA XL in 2007. She was most recently chief operating officer for APAC & Europe and XLICSE. Prior to this, she spent 12 years as an environmental liability underwriter in a number of senior, regional and international roles, including as underwriting manager, Environmental, for Southern Europe & Latin America, and later as head of International Environmental.
“I’m delighted that Adias is taking on the role of chief underwriting officer for APAC & Europe. As a senior insurance leader who spent most of her 16-year tenure at AXA XL in underwriting, she is ideally positioned to lead our business unit’s underwriting community at a time when we are looking to grow,” commented Xavier Veyry, chief executive officer, APAC & Europe at AXA XL.
“I am especially pleased that we have been able to fill this position internally. This is a testament to the talent we have within AXA XL and the opportunities available for advancement across the Division and, more widely, across AXA.”
Trium Cyber Names Aspen’s Signorelli as MD of Int’l Operations
Trium Cyber, the Lloyd’s of London cyber insurance specialist, has appointed Mauro Signorelli as managing director of International operations.
Signorelli will be responsible for leading and growing Trium’s International operations. He reports to CEO Josh Ladeau and will work with Amie Watson, Trium’s chief underwriting officer for International, who joined earlier in the year.
Signorelli began his insurance industry career as an E&O underwriter at AIG’s office in Paris and then transferred to the company’s Milan office as a tech & cyber underwriter.
He moved to London, where he became a cyber underwriter at XL Catlin. Most recently, he served as Aspen Insurance’s international head of Cyber & Tech, where his leadership helped drive substantial market outperformance.
Signorelli earned his Master of Laws from the Catholic University of Milan and holds the Certified Information Privacy Technologies (CIPT) designation.
“Mauro’s in-depth knowledge of the international market, his proven track record and market recognition will help accelerate Trium’s vision to become a world leader,” Ladeau commented.
“I’m thrilled to be joining the Trium team,” said Signorelli. “First, to collaborate with talented cyber thought leaders, and second, to introduce Trium’s sophisticated, technology-focused approach to the London market and beyond. With it, we’ll be able to provide clients with smarter underwriting decisions, tailor-made solutions and bring innovative products to the market.”
Trium Cyber U.S. Services, Inc. (Trium Cyber) is the authorized service company for Syndicate 1322 at Lloyd’s. Policies underwritten by Trium Cyber are done on behalf of Syndicate 1322 at Lloyd’s on a surplus lines basis through licensed surplus lines brokers. Trium Cyber is licensed and regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the respective states of the United States.

Topics
Cyber
Europe
Maryland
AXA XL
