Ardonagh Europe Ltd., the Dublin-based subsidiary of The Ardonagh Group, announced it has agreed to acquire Léons Group, an independent family-owned insurance brokerage and consultancy firm in the Netherlands.
Headquartered in Amsterdam and founded in 1951 by Max Léons, Léons Group specializes in full-service insurance solutions to corporate clients and is renowned for expertise in complex cases and international operations.
Financial details of the deal, which is subject to the receipt of regulatory approvals, were not disclosed.
Léons Group is a founding member and shareholder of Brokerslink, a global network that brings together market-leading, independent brokers from 125 countries and supports them with world-class, risk management and insurance services.
CEO Sunny Léons was for many years board member and one of the initiators of further consolidation within Brokerslink to build an international broker together with partners.
The broker, which celebrated its 71st anniversary early June 2022, will continue to operate independently as part of Ardonagh Europe under the direct leadership of Sunny and Nico Léons, together with the shareholders and current management team, building on successive years of growth.
The Léons family maintains a stake in Léons Group as part of the transaction.
“We are excited to welcome Léons to Ardonagh, together building on their Dutch roots and solid reputation in the market to build a portfolio of brands and insurance broker companies that are leaders in their target markets,” commented Conor Brennan, CEO of Ardonagh Europe.
“Sunny and Nico have built a unique business with a special culture that will fit perfectly alongside the portfolio of independent businesses that Ardonagh has acquired over the last number of years. We are very excited by what we can achieve with our new partners in the Netherlands,” Brennan added.
“The Ardonagh Group and its leadership are a perfect match for our vision and growth ambitions. We are thrilled to be joining forces with a global platform with scale and dynamic culture, that embraces our family-owned concept. With access to Ardonagh’s considerable resource and capital, we look forward to joining them as our growth engine together with MDS and other partners, to build on an international group as individual partners,” according to Sunny Léons.
“Welcoming this leading independent Dutch firm into the Group continues our meaningful global investment and further strengthens our relationship with members of Brokerslink. With independence core to our own success, this is a testament to the respect we have for this network, and the strength and quality of its membership,” said David Ross, CEO of The Ardonagh Group.
In December 2021, The Ardonagh Group announced the acquisition of MDS Group, a Portuguese insurance broker and risk management adviser, and founding member and shareholder in Brokerslink.
Founded in 2017, Ardonagh operates as an independent insurance broker with four units — international, specialty, advisory and retail. The company employs more than 9,000 people in over 150 locations, according to its website. The company’s registered address is St Helier, Jersey (in the Channel Islands).
Source: Ardonagh

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Europe
