Aston Lark Ireland, the insurance broker that recently became part of Howden Broking Group, announced the acquisition of Sparrow Insurances Ltd.
Financial details of the transaction were not disclosed.
Sparrow Insurances has a history of success and growth across Leinster and Munster, operating out of offices in Portlaoise, Blanchardstown, Nenagh and Thurles, according to Aston Lark Ireland.
Sparrow Insurances offers a full range of commercial and personal insurance products as well as life, pensions and investment products. Sparrow Insurances has established a strong brand and excellent reputation as a trusted adviser with a team of talented, experienced and highly motivated professionals, Aston Lark went on to say.
Robert Kennedy, Aston Lark Ireland CEO, said the acquisition “is another boost to our ambition of becoming Ireland’s leading independent insurance broker.”
“With the fast-changing landscape within the broker market, Eilish [Sparrow] and I, having considered all the options, chose Aston Lark, now part of the Howden Broking Group, as the best home for our business,” said Michael Sparrow, managing director of Sparrow Insurances Ltd.
“Most importantly, it was very clear from our discussions with Robert, that Aston Lark and Howden share the same culture and values, with integrity at the core of their business. We believe they will be the best partners for our clients and afford staff excellent career opportunities for the future,” he continued.
Source: Aston Lark Ireland

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
