AGCS Promotes Todorovic for Political Violence Unit
Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty (AGCS) has promoted Srdjan Todorovic as head of Global Political Violence & Hostile Environment Solutions, based in London.
This unit is part of AGCS’s Property line of business and provides crisis management solutions for international companies which help them to respond to terrorism, political violence and hostile environments.
Todorovic succeeds Björn Reußwig who leaves AGCS to pursue interests outside of Allianz from July 1. He joined AGCS in April 2015 as head of Terrorism, Regional Unit London.
Prior to joining AGCS in 2015, he worked as an assistant underwriter for Catlin’s Terrorism and Political Violence unit, according to his LinkedIn profile.
“Srdjan has established himself as an industry expert in the Political Violence & Terrorism segment and he is exactly the right person to continue to expand our services for clients as we broaden our Property insurance offering, building on Björn’s great work in this area. We all wish Björn well in his future career beyond Allianz,” commented Shanil Williams, AGCS board member and chief underwriting officer, Corporate.
Aon Hires Knight From Navigators & General for Global Yacht Practice
Insurance broker Aon plc has named Charles Knight as global yacht manager, specialist in Yacht, and Pleasure Craft.
He joined the firm on May 3, 2022, and reports to Emma Carpenter, global yacht leader.
Knight brings more than 18 years of marine insurance experience and will drive the development of Aon’s small yacht offering for the UK, Europe, and then globally. He joins from Zurich Insurance-owned Navigators & General where, for seven years, he was responsible for the yacht, delegated authority and commercial Marine sales and development.
Prior to this, he was underwriter for yacht at Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty (AGCS).

Topics
Aon
