This edition of International People Moves details appointments at the insurers Markel and QBE.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Markel Taps QBE’s Smith to Lead Marine & Energy Liability Team, Int’l Specialty
Markel, the insurance operations within Markel Group, announced the appointment of Grant Smith as director, Marine & Energy Liability, International Specialty, with immediate effect.
Smith’s appointment is the latest in a move to enhance Markel’s international specialty underwriting capabilities and expertise, following the launch of its International Specialty practice last December.
In his new role, Smith will lead the Marine & Energy Liability team across Markel’s International Wholesale business. He will be responsible for driving sustainable, profitable growth initiatives that align with Markel’s long-term strategic vision, aiming to expand market share and further establish Markel as a market leader in marine and energy liabilities. He will also focus on strengthening relationships with key stakeholders and developing and nurturing existing underwriting talent.
Smith will be based in London and report to Tom Hillier, managing director, International Specialty, at Markel.
Smith has extensive knowledge of the liability insurance market, having spent more than 17 years of his career working in various underwriting and leadership positions across this class of business. He joins Markel from QBE, where he was most recently portfolio manager specialty, QBE European Operations (a role he held since 2014), with responsibility for managing an extensive portfolio of international marine business, including liability, hull and protection and indemnity classes. Prior to joining QBE as a marine & energy liability underwriter in 2011, Smith had spent five years working in various underwriting roles across marine and aviation at Travelers.
“When we established the Specialty practice within our International Wholesale business last year, we set out ambitious goals for our Marine & Energy Liability team, centered on the delivery of sustainable, profitable growth and establishing ourselves as a leader in the market in terms of underwriting and service,” said Hillier.
“I’m therefore delighted to welcome Grant on board to lead our Marine & Energy liability team. I’m confident his background and experience will position him to lead the team to deliver on our ambitious goals for this class of business and provide a superior service proposition to our clients and brokers.”
QBE Promotes Lascelles as Director of Underwriting, Marine and British Marine
QBE has appointed Simon Lascelles appointed to the role of director of Underwriting, Marine and British Marine.
Lascelles was previously portfolio manager for Cargo, International Markets, and has been with QBE for 10 years. His role will encompass both Marine and British Marine.
Lascelles started his new role on Monday, Aug. 12, 2024.
Prior to QBE, Lascelles worked as a cargo broker at Marsh for more than three years and also worked at the broker Aon.

Topics
Excess Surplus
Liability
Underwriting
