This edition of International People Moves details appointments at AXIS Specialty Europe and SCOR Syndicate.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
AXIS Specialty Europe Names Mullarkey as CEO
AXIS Capital Holdings Ltd. announced the appointment of Fintan Mullarkey as CEO of AXIS Specialty Europe SE (ASE), subject to regulatory approval.
ASE is AXIS Capital’s specialty insurance legal entity domiciled in Ireland and regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland, with branches in Belgium and the UK. In this role, Mullarkey will be responsible for ASE and the legal entity aspects of its branches. Mullarkey will also join the board of directors of ASE.
“Fintan has been with AXIS for 18 years and he brings extensive experience in international insurance and global operations, and the financial, regulatory and leadership capabilities necessary to manage a highly regulated legal entity such as ASE,” said Pete Vogt, Chief Financial Officer of AXIS Capital.
Mullarkey has served as head of Finance for ASE and AXIS Re SE (ARe) for the past 10 years. He is also a Non-Executive Director of AXIS Managing Agency Ltd.
Mullarkey will continue to be based in Dublin. He succeeds Helen O’Sullivan, who was named group treasurer for AXIS Capital in January 2022. O’Sullivan remains a director of ASE and ARe.
SCOR Syndicate Appoints Arch’s Biggas as Active Underwriter
SCOR’s 100% backed SCOR Syndicate announced the appointment of Marie Biggas as active underwriter and chief underwriting officer of SCOR UK, subject to regulatory approval. She will report to both Stuart McMurdo, CEO of SCOR P&C EMEA and the SCOR Syndicate, and to Olivier Perraut, global CUO Single Risks.
Previously, Biggas was vice president, deputy active underwriter for Arch Syndicate 2012, and head of Terrorism, Aviation, War and Space for Arch Insurance International. Prior to joining Arch in 2014, she held several underwriting positions at ACE Group, Chaucer Syndicates, and Amlin. She has 14 years of experience in the insurance industry.
Biggas is a Chartered Insurer and Associate of the Chartered Insurance Institute. She holds a bachelor’s degree in Public Administration from Roskilde University and an Master’s of Arts in Political Communications from Goldsmiths University.
“We are entering a new chapter in the syndicate’s journey. The intention is to build on two great consecutive results in 2020 and 2021 and continue delivering profitable growth in the years ahead, whilst at the same time broadening the SCOR Specialty Insurance profile and presence in the London market and Europe,” commented Stuart McMurdo.
“We are delighted to be able to bring someone of Marie’s stature and ability to execute the next stage of our plans. Her appointment further strengthens our existing executive team.”

Topics
Excess Surplus
Underwriting
Europe
