AXA XL Promotes Riha as Chief Client & Distribution Officer, APAC & Europe
AXA XL announced that Robert Riha has been appointed as chief client & distribution officer, APAC & Europe, effective July 1.
In his new role, Riha will lead AXA XL’s client and broker engagement as well as marketing activities in Asia-Pacific and Europe, working closely with local client and distribution teams. He will report to Xavier Veyry, chief executive officer, APAC & Europe, and Manuel Meier, global chief client officer.
Riha started his career in insurance in 2006, working in-house at RSA for Parabis Law and later qualifying as a solicitor, specialising in insurance litigation with Kennedys. He joined AXA XL in 2012 as a senior claims adjuster in London. He later relocated to Singapore where he went on to lead AXA XL’s claims teams for Southeast Asia before being promoted to head of Claims, Asia in 2021.
Riha will relocate from Singapore to Dublin.
“We have ambitious growth plans for APAC & Europe focused primarily on multinational and mid-market solutions. We can only achieve those plans by expanding our partnership with clients and deepening our relationships with our broker partners,” commented Veyry.
“Robbie will play an integral part in this approach by driving our broker engagement strategy and, where it makes sense, identifying new distribution opportunities,” he added.
“In addition to leading our broker strategy, Robbie will build on our existing relationships with clients in Europe, Asia and Australia to develop a deeper understanding of their evolving needs. He will help us enhance our value proposition by broadening our suite of solutions, from traditional risk transfer to tech-enable prevention services,” Meier said.

Topics
Europe
AXA XL
