Howden, the London-based global insurance group, announced the acquisition of Laurie Ross, a personal and commercial lines broker based in Scotland.
The addition of Laurie Ross will take Howden’s high street branches to 117, with a total of over 200 centers across the UK, Howden said.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
Established in 1973, with seven branches based in and around the city of Glasgow, Laurie Ross services clients and communities in key business areas including car, home, taxi, van and business insurance.
This deal further cements Howden’s ambition to continue its high street expansion, and supports the growth of Howden UK & Ireland in Scotland.
“Laurie Ross is a fantastic business and, culturally, it’s a perfect fit as we’re both committed to providing a local advised service that delights our clients, as well as working with and supporting our local communities. We’re really excited to welcome June Lynch, managing director of Laurie Ross, and the team to the Howden family,” commented Kelly Ogley, CEO of Howden Consumer and Local Commercial.
“I am delighted that Laurie Ross is now part of Howden providing us with an even greater opportunity to enhance our capabilities and reach,” said June Lynch, managing director, Laurie Ross “Joining a well-known UK branch network, with values that mirror our own excellent reputation for unwavering commitment to client satisfaction, it’s exactly the sort of partnership we were looking for.”
Founded in 1994, Howden provides insurance broking, reinsurance broking and underwriting services and solutions to clients ranging from individuals to the largest multinational companies. The group operates in 50 countries across Europe, Africa, Asia, the Middle East, Latin America, the USA, Australia and New Zealand, employing 16,000 people and handling $35 billion of premium on behalf of clients.
Source: Howden

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
