This edition of International People Moves details appointments at the broker BMS and the managing general agent DUAL UK.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
BMS Taps Howden Re’s Biddell as Managing Director and Head of London P/C
BMS, the London-based independent insurance and reinsurance broker, announces the appointment of Genna Biddell as managing director and head of London P/C Re.
Biddell will report to Brad Melvin, president and CEO, BMS Re US. She will develop and oversee the London P&C reinsurance business while closely collaborating with the reinsurance and programmes teams across the US, London, and Bermuda.
Additionally, her responsibilities will encompass strategic projects that leverage growth opportunities across divisions.
Biddell joins BMS from Howden Re, where she was managing director of the North America wholesale property treaty team. With a career spanning 25 years, she has previously held North American property treaty roles at both Willis Re and Aon Re.
MGA DUAL UK Makes 3 Senior Appointments in Underwriting and Distribution Roles
DUAL UK, the managing general agent and subsidiary of Howden, announced the appointment of Steve Kelly as managing director of Construction, James Ramira as managing director of Regional P&C and Social Care, and Georgie Petrou, as head of Strategic Accounts.
Kelly joined the business at the start of January. He has over 35 years in the insurance industry, of which 26 years were spent at RSA and latterly, nine years at Allianz. Kelly brings deep technical knowledge of the construction and engineering insurance market, having led the underwriting of some of the largest conventional power and renewable energy risks in the UK and Europe.
His focus will be on growing DUAL’s existing construction portfolio and the potential to expand the business’ appetite for risk into new areas, including the power generation sector.
Ramira has been appointed as managing director of regional P/C and Social Care. He will continue to lead the Social Care and Commercial Underwriting teams, while his new role will be a central part in driving the regional and commercial ambitions forward.
Ramira joined DUAL UK in 2014 and has over 25 years’ experience in the insurance industry. He has specialized in the niche social care space on both the broker and underwriting functions, previously holding the role director of Social Care at DUAL UK.
Petrou joined the business in the January 2025, with over 20 years insurance industry experience, and joins from Chubb, where she was UK&I strategic development manager, having previously worked at Zurich Insurance and Marsh.
Launched in 1998, DUAL is a Lloyd’s coverholder and the specialist underwriting arm of Howden Group Holdings. Today DUAL employs more than 1,800 people in 21 countries across the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific, and is one of Lloyd’s’ largest international coverholders.

Topics
Talent
Underwriting
Insurance Wholesale
London
Property Casualty
Human Resources
