This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Generali Global Corporate & Commercial (GC&C), Gallagher Re and Mosaic Insurance.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Generali Global Corporate & Commercial France Promotes 2 Execs
Generali Global Corporate & Commercial (GC&C) France has appointed Aurélie Julie Beuffé, 38, as head of Client & Broker Relationship Management, and Vincent Colette, 43, as head of Risk Engineering & Loss Prevention.
In her new role, which will take effect on June 1, 2023, Beuffé will be directly responsible for Generali GC&C France’s Broker and Client Relations team, whose primary mission is to manage, facilitate and monitor all GC&C actions towards its broker partners and customers. She will report to Gaëlle Tortuyaux, head of GC&C France.
With 15 years of experience in the P&C business market, Beuffé was previously in charge of the structuring, management and national coordination of P&C Grand Courtage within Generali France.
Beuffé began her career with Generali in 2009 in the health field, as Insurance Operations manager, before moving to the position of Property Damage underwriter in the PropPE segment. In 2014, she became IARD (Property and Casualty) Commercial Inspector, then in 2021 she was named IARD Commercial Inspector for Generali France in the Grand Ouest Region, before taking charge of the structuring, management and national coordination of Generali France’s IARD Grand Courtage (Brokerage).
Beuffé holds a master’s degree in insurance and wealth management from IAE Rouen.
In a separate appointment, Generali GC&C France has named Vincent Colette as the new head of Risk Engineering & Loss Prevention, reporting to Sara Foucher, head of Underwriting & Prevention of Generali GC&C France.
Effective immediately, Colette takes direct responsibility for the Risk Studies and Prevention team, which includes advisory and prevention follow-up missions in support of the underwriting teams and clients – essential for understanding risk exposure and controlling it.
Colette began his career at CNPP as a sprinklers inspector. He then became an expert prevention engineer at MMA/COVEA Risks, before joining Verlingue as a prevention engineer. Colette subsequently joined Generali GC&C France in 2016 as a prevention consulting engineer, a position in which he was able to bring his expertise to the service of GC&C customers and support them in the prevention and management of their risks. Colette holds a master’s degree in advanced maintenance techniques and a specialized graduate diploma (DESS) in industrial systems operating safety.
Gallagher Securities Hires Zanelli as EVP, North America
Gallagher Re, the global reinsurance broker, announced the appointment of Bart Zanelli as executive vice president within the North American team.
Based in New York, Zanelli will focus on a range of capital market activities within Gallagher Securities, the capital markets arm of Gallagher Re. His responsibilities will include capital raising and mergers and acquisitions advisory services. He will report to Jim Bradshaw, chief executive officer, Gallagher Re North America.
An investment banker by profession, Zanelli brings to Gallagher Re more than 30 years of capital markets and reinsurance experience across both the property and casualty and life sectors, and in both traditional and non-traditional solutions. Prior positions have included managing director for JLT Re and Guy Carpenter, and most recently he served as head of the Insurance Practice at Skyway Capital Markets where he focused on capital raising and M&A transactions.
“We are excited to have Bart join our North American team,” Bradshaw said. “His demonstrated leadership and expertise in capital and reinsurance markets will play a key role in delivering innovative and tailored capital solutions to cedents, and in collaborating with colleagues across Gallagher Re to provide a bespoke client experience from start to finish.”
Mosaic Names Bakhshi as CFO, Haque as Capital Solutions Officer
Senior financial services executive Reeva Bakhshi has joined the leadership team of Mosaic Insurance, as part of a strategic development of the specialty insurer’s corporate division.
Bakhshi takes on the role of chief financial officer (CFO), as Aizaz (Oz) Haque, the former CFO, assumes the new position of capital solutions officer, both based in New York.
Bakhshi brings more than 25 years’ experience in financial services, including international re/insurance markets. She will lead Mosaic’s finance organization, directing financial strategy. Bakhshi previously served as SVP, treasurer and deputy CFO at Alleghany Corp., and board member of TransRe, RSUI and CapSpecialty. Prior to Alleghany, she was CFO at Aspen Insurance and CFO at Hiscox at a number of operations, including Hiscox Re and ILS, Europe, and Special Risks. Qualified as a chartered accountant, she began her career at PricewaterhouseCoopers.
With 20 years of investment banking experience, Haque will oversee alternative capital strategies to optimize capital provision for the company. He joined Mosaic as CFO in June 2020, previously holding roles at Foros Group, Deutsche Bank, HSBC and Lazard, according to his LinkedIn profile.
“We are excited to have Reeva join us as we embark on our next phase of growth,” said Co-CEO Mitch Blaser. “She brings a distinguished track record in the insurance industry to oversee all our financial activities. Oz’s new role sees him address ways we can build alternative capital strategies to support our development and leverage the platform we’ve built. Having Reeva and Oz focused on these respective areas will help Mosaic deliver on plans and create innovative capital solutions for our business.”

Topics
A.J. Gallagher
