Northern Europe is facing freezing temperatures and snow, boosting heating demand and putting more pressure on the region’s depleting gas inventories.
There are yellow weather alerts over Scotland on Friday, with the risk of blizzard conditions in parts, according to the Met Office, which has amber warnings in place across parts of England and Wales during the weekend. The UK Health Security Agency has issued cold health warnings until Wednesday.
Northeast France and northwest Germany are also on alert for snow and ice. The snow is likely to get heavier in the north through Friday, while isolated wintry showers are forecast further south, according to the German weather service DWD.
Unsettled weather is on the way this weekend, with snow forecast for several parts of the UK ❄️
Stay up to date with the latest forecasts and warnings ⚠️
APP
👉 https://t.co/SKPrqORHEO
YOUTUBE
👉 https://t.co/WhIb7NqqhY
WEB
👉 https://t.co/j7ojlIej4g pic.twitter.com/79TnLONKDU
— Met Office (@metoffice) January 2, 2025
There are avalanche alerts in place for the French Alps on Friday, with a considerable danger level in Switzerland above 2,200 meters (7,216 feet), according to the Davos-based WSL Institute for Snow and Avalanche Research.
Icy conditions could disrupt road transport in France on Saturday, according to La Chaine Meteo.
There are snow warnings for parts of Norway, where temperatures in Oslo could fall as low as -15C (5F) over the weekend.
On Sunday and Monday, there will be a brief period of much milder weather for northern Europe, before colder conditions return later in the week.

Topics
Europe
