Ryan Specialty said it has formed an international financial lines managing general underwriter (MGU), Ryan Financial Lines.
This MGU is being created by unifying the operations of EmergIn Risk, led by Jamie Bouloux; StartPoint Executive Risks, led by Mark Peeters and Jason Lowney; Ryan Specialty Nordics, led by Sverker Edstrom; Capital Bay, led by Pascal Alvarez; and the professional liability portfolios historically housed within Ryan Specialty National Programs.
Effective immediately, Bouloux has been appointed CEO of Ryan Financial Lines. He has been with Ryan Specialty since 2015 with the launch of cyber MGU EmergIn Risk.
All of these MGUs and programs are currently a part of Ryan Specialty Underwriting Managers (RSUM), the underwriting management specialty within Ryan Specialty. The formation of Ryan Financial Lines, and the bringing together of all the above-listed entities, will roll through the first half of 2024 as the alignment of operations and capital is completed.
“Bringing together the financial lines and professional liability talent at RSUM will provide greater synergies and efficiencies to further enhance the solutions and services for our clients and carrier partners. This unified approach will bring together our expanding network of expertise of more than 70 teammates based across a number of key territories,” said Miles Wuller, president and CEO of RSUM, in a statement.





Ryan Specialty said Ryan Financial Lines—with operations across the US, Europe, LatAm and London—is being designed to offer clients and capital providers a wide-ranging, single platform of financial lines products and services for the small-to-middle market enterprise and large insured market:
As Bouloux transitions into his new role, he will be handing the leadership of cyber over to George Paraskeva, currently president of EmergIn Risk.

Topics
Excess Surplus
Liability
Insurance Wholesale
