This edition of International People Moves details appointments at the broker Howden RE and the MGA Alta Signa Europe.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Howden RE Hires Former Carpenter Exec Thienel to Launch German Reinsurance Unit
Howden RE, part of international re/insurance intermediary Howden Broking, has announced the appointment of Carsten Thienel as head of Treaty Reinsurance, Germany.
Thienel, whose appointment is effective from Aug. 1, will establish Howden RE’s operations in the country, via a new office in Hamburg, enabling it to better service German and international reinsurance buyers.
With more than 30 years of experience in international reinsurance, Thienel has held senior roles at Guy Carpenter, where he was managing director, Treaty, Asia, and a partner in the UK and Europe, responsible for key client relationships. In addition, he has held the role of CEO of Reinsurance, Asia Pacific at Ed Broking, and various senior positions in Europe at Hannover Re.
Reporting to Marenco Scholz, Managing Director and head of Howden RE Europe, Thienel will be responsible for building Howden RE’s facultative and captive reinsurance business by establishing a presence on the ground in Germany, with a particular focus on developing treaty, retro and specialty reinsurance solutions capabilities.
“The hiring of Carsten is yet another example of us attracting the best talent and continuing to invest in reinsurance, where clients need real reinsurance broker choice,” commented Bradley Maltese, CEO, Howden RE.
“Following our agreement to acquire TigerRisk Partners, we will become the global leader in Facultative, Capital Markets, MGA, Analytics and Specialty Treaty and the pre-eminent reinsurance and capital markets provider for reinsurance buyers. We are now eager to grow our presence in the DACH region, and Carsten is a natural fit due to his extensive experience in both the German and wider international markets.”
MGA Alta Signa Appoints Kisters as Professional Indemnity Manager, Netherlands
European boutique managing general agent (MGA) Alta Signa Europe B.V. announced the appointment of Jeroen Kisters as professional indemnity manager for the Netherlands.
Based in Rotterdam, Kisters will be responsible for developing Alta Signa’s professional indemnity (PI) product offering in the Dutch market as part of the business’ wider focus on carefully targeted, sustainable and profitable growth within specialty markets across Europe.
Kisters has more than 30 years’ experience as an insurance consultant, wholesale broker, legal risk management consultant and underwriter in the areas of commercial lines, general liability, employer’s liability, product liability, professional indemnity (facultative reinsurance) and directors & officers liability.
Prior to joining Alta Signa, he was a self-employed PI legal risk management consultant and subject matter expert having previously held senior underwriting roles at Liberty Specialty Markets, Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty and AXA. Kisters is a fluent Dutch, English and German speaker.
“As an established MGA dedicated to the European specialty insurance market, we are focusing on specialty insurance where global expertise and local underwriting experience is critical, and where policyholders buy your capacity because they feel comfortable that you completely understand their risk exposures,” commented Alta Signa Head of Distribution Dennis Gattenger.
“Professional Indemnity is one such market where we are looking to grow selectively across Europe on a country-by-country basis with a local boots-on-the-ground presence,” Gattenger added. “Jeroen’s knowledge of the Dutch PI market is second to none and will add extensive value to our clients as we bring specialised solutions to help them manage their evolving risks.”
“We are pleased to have Jeroen join the Benelux team. With his expertise and knowledge on Dutch PI we will elevate the Benelux operation to the next level. Jeroen brings a wealth of complementary underwriting, broking and consulting experience, and I know that our clients and business partners will benefit enormously from his extensive expertise and sector insights,” said Alta Signa Branch Manager for Benelux Mark Haverkate.
“Contrary to what some in the market are saying, PI markets in Europe are soft with ample opportunities and lots of capacity so you have to stand out and have your USPs in order. Differentiation and relevance are key and if you have a good strategy, a compelling value proposition and a strong local network to allow you to underwrite profitably, the prospects are favourable,” according to Kisters.
Brussels-based Alta Signa has successfully launched operations in Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and Spain since it began operations in 2019.

Topics
Liability
Insurance Wholesale
Germany
