This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Amwins Global Risks, Markel Bermuda and BMS Re.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Amwins Global Risks Promotes Cody to Managing Director
Amwins Global Risks, the international arm of global specialty insurance broker Amwins and one of the largest independent wholesale brokers in London, announced the appointment of Mark Cody as managing director, effective Jan. 1, 2023.
In his new role, Cody will lead team sales support activity, focus on strategic recruitment, enhance client and carrier relationships and identify and capitalize on product capability gaps.
Cody most recently led the construction, treaty, property and binding authority teams for Amwins Global Risks and joined Amwins through the THB Group Ltd. acquisition in 2012.
With more than 500 employees across 150 countries, Amwins Global Risks serves clients and markets in North America, the U.K. and across the globe while maintaining position as a top 10 contributor to Lloyd’s.
“Mark has been a great leader for Amwins Global Risks, guiding the growth of our largest division to be market leading over the last 25 years,” said Nate Mathis, chief executive officer of Amwins Global Risks. “Mark is a highly respected figure in the marketplace with a wealth of strong relationships with our key trading partners. He will continue to be a valuable asset as his role expands to championing and supporting a culture of excellence, collaboration and transparency within our sales and broking teams.”
Markel Bermuda Names Cardoso as Head of Office
Markel announced that Jessica Cardoso has been appointed head of Office for Markel Bermuda Ltd. in addition to her current role as senior director, head of Bermuda Errors and Omissions.
As head of Office, Cardoso will continue to help grow Markel’s Bermuda presence and will be responsible for supporting the Bermuda operations and overall strategy.
Cardoso has nearly 20 years of experience underwriting errors and omissions, cyber, employment practices, and wage and hour liability, both on a primary and excess basis. Cardoso’s experience includes underwriting commercial entities and professional firms with both U.S. and international exposures. She earned her Registered Professional Liability Underwriter (RPLU) designation in 2008.
Cardoso is based in Markel’s Bermuda office.
BMS Re Appoints QBE Re’s Larson as Co-Head of Casualty Broking
BMS Re, the London-based specialty reinsurance broker, announced the appointment of Christopher Larson as managing director, co-head of casualty broking, effective immediately.
Based in New York, Larson will report to Sean Ryan, deputy chief executive officer, and immediately contribute to the continued build out of BMS Re’s North American casualty and treaty capabilities. In addition, Larson will have oversight responsibilities for the branch offices.
Larson joins BMS from QBE Re, where he worked for 24 years and last served as the head of global casualty, senior vice president. In this position, Larson managed the New York office which held a book of around $500 million, inclusive of casualty, property, and health. Larson was integral to the development of QBE’s North American operations, specifically their treaty and casualty reinsurance offerings and primary insurance capabilities. Prior to QBE Re, Larson worked as an underwriter at AIG.

Topics
Maryland
Casualty
