DeNexus Inc., the Sausalito, Calif.-based provider of cyber risk modeling, has opened an office in London as part of its strategy to build out its cyber expertise in Europe.
The London office is headed up by seasoned professional Mitesh Chauhan. Chauhan, global VP product, joins from Entrust, where he was global product director, Cloud & Security Services.
Also joining the London office is data scientist Nicholas Robert. Robert has a decade of experience in data science, and he joined from the London office of content delivery network, Cloudflare.
DeNexus has developed its DeRISK platform, a second-generation cyber risk modeling platform, which helps industrial organizations, underwriters, reinsurers, and investors in insurance-linked securities (ILS) to fully understand the real risks associated with cyber breaches.
“The opening of our offices in Lugano, Switzerland last summer, and now in London, UK, are important steps for DeNexus as we build out our presence in Europe to grow our technology business and to enable cyber risk for the risk transfer industry at scale,” said Jose Seara, chief executive officer at DeNexus.
“The new office in London gets us closer to one of the hubs for the risk transfer – insurance business – so we can better serve their cyber data needs,” Seara added.
“I am honored to head up DeNexus’ London office, and to be part of a team bringing the benefits of the DeNexus Trusted Ecosystem to more stakeholders,” commented Chauhan.
“The DeNexus Trusted Ecosystem is a combination of data integrity, encryption and anonymization tools, security standards and certifications, trusted and certified infrastructure, policies and procedures which enable strict control over the dissemination of data among cyber risk owners, managers, and the cyber risk transfer industry at large,” Chauhan continued.
About DeNexus
DeNexus’ flagship platform, DeRISK, enables the industrial enterprise and risk underwriters with the ability to quantify and manage cyber risk exposure on a continuous basis. DeRISK’s self-adaptive, cloud-based technology predicts where cyber breaches are likely to occur, values their impact on business and guides risk stakeholders towards the best risk mitigation paths for their organization.
Source: DeNexus

Topics
Cyber
