“There could be a liability crisis in reinsurance in a couple of years,” a reinsurance executive predicted this week.
Ken Brandt, chair, president and chief executive officer of TransRe, offered the assessment during a 30-minute chat with S&P Global Ratings Director Taoufik Gharib at the 40th Annual Insurance Conference. Brandt, who had more positive observations about the property reinsurance market, said liability losses emerging from past accident years, and already starting to show up for more recent years, could spell trouble.
“The U.S. casualty market is driving most of the conversations in the industry right now, without a doubt,” Brandt said, responding to an initial question about overall reinsurance market dynamics. “When I travel around the globe and talk to some of my counterparts of our European customers, [this] is the No. 1 issue that people talk to me about: It’s U.S. casualty—their exposure to the U.S.,” he said.
Is that market going to turn around at some point?
“I don’t know,” Brandt said. “I think that we have a serious issue…..The ’14 through ’19 accident years, or ’15 through ’18—wherever you want to characterize the last soft market for U.S. casualty—are horrendous.”
As a result, “the renewal season right now in reinsurance for casualty covers is very difficult. [There are] lots of tough negotiations going on because the losses coming in are much higher than even our worst-case scenarios during that block of time.”
“We knew they were bad years. It wasn’t….a surprise that that block of time was not going to be profitable. But it’s exceeding our worst-case scenarios,” he repeated.
Couple that with “troubling conversations now” that have reinsurers questioning, “What do the ’20 through ’22 years look like?” he continued. A year ago, reinsurers reasoned that insurers’ corrective underwriting and pricing actions in the late-2019 and 2020 in the primary casualty market had been sufficient. “All the policy limits came down in the U.S., compressed a lot, which was good. Prices went way up, terms tightened up. There was a market correction.”
“And that’s what we felt too. We thought these are going to be solidly, if not terrifically profitable years.” But 12 months later, there’s some—not a lot—but some “claims emergence coming from those years way too early….”
“We know that the ’14 through ’19 years are really bad, worse than we expected. And if it turns out that the ’20 through ’22 years aren’t as good as we had hoped, there could be a liability crisis in reinsurance in a couple years,” he concluded. “When we can do all that math, it’s hard to justify the capital” put into it, he said.
Brandt reported that “a lot of the big players [insurers] are getting high-single digit original prices” on excess casualty now, which sounds like it could be enough to turn results around. “If you get nine or 10 points of price, it sounds like it’s capturing trend,” which also benefits U.S. reinsurers who write casualty coverage on a quota-share basis. “But I don’t think it’s capturing trend. I think we have some ways to go,” he said, stating that the casualty reinsurance market “is at an inflection point for sure.”
(Brandt distinguished between the casualty reinsurance markets in and outside the U.S., noting that within the U.S., it’s a quota share market, while European reinsurers use excess-of-loss contracts. “In an excess of loss market, the reinsurers control their own pricing, subject to market forces. In the U.S., our profitability is dependent on the client’s own pricing,” he said.)
Gharib then asked Brandt whether fourth-quarter 2023 reserve charges recorded by some reinsurance peers were the start of an industry trend or whether they were contained to a handful of companies.
Before he finished the question, Brandt interjected. “I would not use the word contained.”
“I don’t know how some of our peers and customers reserve, but it does not feel like it’s contained. If those bad years are as bad as we think they are, you don’t get out of that with just one reserve adjustment in one quarter in one year.”
Related articles:

P/C Loss Reserve Study: Keep Calm and Carry On
Reserve Strengthening for Casualty Lines Not Over: Moody’s
What Industry Executives Are Saying About Loss Reserves, Social Inflation
Questionable Loss Reserves: Are Legacy Reinsurance Deals the Answer?