Howden, the international insurance broker, announced an agreement to acquire Franz Gossler Insurance Group, one of the leading insurance brokers focusing on film and entertainment insurance in Germany and beyond.
The transaction has been executed by Howden Germany’s specialty broker Howden Caninenberg, reflecting the company’s strategic objective to invest in local specialist expertise and position itself as the preeminent choice for national and international clients in the entertainment industry – including sport, film, TV and streaming.
Financial details of the deal were not released.
Franz Gossler Insurance Group was founded in 1970 and is a high quality, owner-managed company specializing in the field of entertainment, film, event and advertising insurance.
The acquisition of Franz Gossler follows that of Assimovie earlier this year, making Howden the largest TV and film production broking house in Italy. This represents another significant step in Howden’s ambition to be a leading sport, film and entertainment broker in Europe.
“Franz Gossler and his team have enjoyed an excellent reputation as professionals in the field of film insurance for decades and are therefore the ideal partner for us. Our position as the leading broker for film, television and streaming services in the German-speaking region is thus consolidated. This transaction seamlessly fits into our growth strategy for the entire European market,” commented Klaus Eisenberger, managing director who is responsible for film at Howden Caninenberg.
“As an owner-managed company in its second generation, we have built a very successful business for clients in the film and entertainment industry in the DACH region. Now it is time to set the course for the future in order to better meet client’s global challenges,” said Franz Gossler Jr., owner of Franz Gossler Insurance Group.
“Howden, as an international company with specialist expertise in film and entertainment risks, is the best place for us to continue to grow and deliver for our clients as they face these increasingly global demands and to jointly expand the business from now on,” Gossler added.
“With the acquisition of the Franz Gossler Insurance Group, we further strengthen our position as one of the leading brokers in the German-speaking region as well as internationally in the sport, film and entertainment sector,” according to Duncan Fraser, Sport and Entertainment Global Practice leader at Howden.
About Howden Broking
Howden Broking, a leading independent provider of insurance brokerage, risk consulting and employee benefits advice, is headquartered in London and comprises owned businesses across Europe, Asia, Africa, Latin America, Australia, New Zealand and the Middle East. Howden’s reinsurance broking and advisory business, Howden Tiger, operates across Howden’s international network, and also in the US.
Established in 1994, today Howden employs more than 11,500 people worldwide and operates in more than 100 territories.
Source: Howden Broking

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
Germany
