Consilium, the global speciality re/insurance broking business of the Aventum Group, announced the launch of a new Specialty Treaty Reinsurance division.
The new treaty division will complement Consilium’s existing worldwide broking operations including its FAC division launched last month. It will draw on its network and knowledge base to develop new opportunities across the globe and will leverage the Aventum Group’s actuarial and technology capabilities to bring transparency and confidence to both clients and carriers, said Consilium.
The Treaty division will offer both proportional and non-proportional solutions, for clients ranging from start-ups to mature insurers and MGAs and with a broad risk appetite to match clients’ diverse needs.
Paul Cousins and Matt Webb have both been appointed partners at Consilium to lead the new division.
Cousins has 44 years’ experience in the market in both underwriting and broking. He was head of Treaty Underwriting at Employers Re (now Swiss Re UK), treaty underwriter at Soreman/SCOR, head of Treaty at Canopius and chief underwriting officer at SRIR. Latterly he joins from Chesterfield Group where he was executive director of Delegated Underwriting, handling the group’s international reinsurance. Prior to that, he was managing director Speciality at Capsicum Delegated Authorities. He also spent eight years at Aon Benfield as head of Strategy and Business Development.
Webb joins from Ed Broking where he was previously division director of Reinsurance. Webb had been with Ed Broking for most of his career – nearly 23 years. He held senior roles previously at both Cooper Gay and Newman Martin Buchan before they both became Ed Broking in 2016.
“Consilium now has the scale and experience to offer clients a holistic Specialty Reinsurance solution. We have international reinsurance broking capabilities across the globe and we will be expanding those in both class and territory,” commented David Bearman, founder and CEO of Consilium’s parent group Aventum.

Topics
Excess Surplus
New Markets
Reinsurance
