This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Zurich Insurance and the broker Miller.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
De Nil Named Global Head of Zurich Resilience Solutions
Zurich Insurance Group has appointed Dirk De Nil, currently CEO Zurich Benelux and Nordics, to the role of global head of Zurich Resilience Solutions, effective Oct. 1, 2023. He will relocate to Zurich, Switzerland, and report to Sierra Signorelli, CEO Commercial Insurance.
De Nil succeeds Hanno Mijer, who is retiring at the beginning of October.
Having joined Zurich in 2008 in the Asia-Pacific region, De Nil has held various leadership roles within the company. He has successfully led teams in customer management, distribution, and operations across multiple countries. In 2018, he was appointed as CEO Benelux and Nordics, where he has strengthened local teams and positioned the region for continued success in executing the commercial insurance strategy. De Nil has more than 30 years of insurance experience.
Mijer joined Zurich in 2007 and has held numerous leadership positions, playing a crucial role in supporting the group’s growth strategy. Before taking on the role of global head of Zurich Resilience Solutions, he was CEO of CoverMore and global head of Corporate Life & Pensions.
The search for De Nil’s successor as CEO of Zurich Benelux and Nordics is currently underway.
“Zurich Resilience Solutions is a key pillar to deliver on our strategic priorities,” said Signorelli. “I am delighted to have Dirk take on this important role within the Commercial Insurance business. His industry and leadership experience as well as passion for customer focus position him very well to lead the business and drive its growth and success. In this rapidly evolving risk landscape is it more important than ever that we continue to focus on supporting our customers manage both traditional and emerging risks through prevention and mitigation services that go beyond traditional insurance.”
“Hanno has led Zurich Resilience Solutions since its creation in 2021. During this time, he has successful positioned the business and it has become a true differentiator for us that combines the expertise of our risk engineering community with a renewed focus on advisory services and sales development,” commented Signorelli.
“On behalf of the entire organization, I would like to sincerely thank Hanno for his incredible energy, passion, and exceptional contributions to Zurich.”
Miller Taps Aon’s Castanier to Develop European Leasing Practice
Miller, the London-based specialist re/insurance broker, announced the appointment of Gérald Castanier to develop and lead a new European leasing practice.
Castanier reports to Arnaud Froideval, head of Credit and Political Risks for Europe, and will be based in Paris while working closely with Miller’s London and Geneva offices.
Leasing insurance provides protection for banks, corporates and funds acting as lessors from the non-payment of the rent. Miller’s offering will also seek to include bespoke solutions that enable clients to access additional coverage for political violence and the residual value of insured assets.
Gérald joins Miller from Aon, where he developed its leasing solutions practice. Gérald started his career at Societe Generale, holding a number of trade finance roles, before moving to Deutsche Bank where he worked as VP sales trade finance officer for 12 years.
“I’m pleased to welcome Gérald to Miller to lead the launch and development of our new leasing practice. Gérald brings strong experience in credit and trade finance and a proven entrepreneurial mindset, and I look forward to the growth of this new offer for Miller’s banking and corporate clients,” Froideval said.

Topics
Europe
Aon
