This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Probitas, Liberty Specialty Markets, and CFC.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Probitas Appoints Botnick to Launch Canadian Service Company
Probitas, the Lloyd’s insurer, announced appointment of Robbin Botnick to initiate the process of setting up a service company based in Toronto, Canada.
With more than 25 years of experience in the industry, Botnick has knowledge of Lloyd’s business and experience both on the broker and MGA sides of the business.
She joins Probitas from Lions Gate Underwriting, the underwriting agency and Lloyd’s coverholder, where she was managing director and head of corporate development. Previously, she was chief operating officer at Excess Underwriting, and prior to that, she was managing director at Linx Underwriting Solutions.
Probitas has already invested in building distribution/underwriting platforms in Mexico (for Latin America), Brussels (for the European Economic Area), Australia, and in Manchester (for UK regional business).
“This is in line with our strategy to establish local presence in key geographies” commented Antony Dodson, chief underwriting officer.
“As the insurance landscape continues to evolve in Canada, more than ever, it is critical to connect with brokers and clients on a personal level, to truly understand their businesses and how insurance solutions can support business growth and success,” Botnick said. “Insurers need to be partners, not just capacity providers and Probitas Canada will aspire to be that partner.”
Probitas Syndicate 1492 is managed at Lloyd’s by Probitas Managing Agency Ltd.
Liberty Promotes Boyle to Head of Energy, London
Liberty Specialty Markets (LSM), part of Liberty Mutual Insurance Group, announced the appointment of James Boyle to the newly created role of head of Energy, London.
Boyle will have a dual reporting line into Melanie O’Neill, CUO, London, and Ronald Bolaños, LSM’s CUO and global head of Energy. Boyle’s promotion is effective immediately and he is based in London.
Boyle and his team will continue to work closely with LSM’s in-house risk engineers and claims team to provide agile solutions for clients and brokers.
With more than 15 years of London market experience, Boyle joined Liberty in 2021 as senior underwriter, Onshore Energy, before being promoted in 2022 to underwriting manager, Onshore Energy. He was previously vice president, senior underwriter, Onshore Energy for Swiss Re. Boyle’s first London market role was in 2007.
Hart Joins CFC as Head of Proactive Cyber in Newly Created Role
CFC, the London-based specialist managing general agent, announced that Jason Hart has joined as head of Proactive Cyber.
A renowned thought leader in cybersecurity and a member of the Forbes Technology Council for the past five years, Hart brings over two decades of experience in creating and developing information security offerings and services whilst driving change in the world of cybersecurity.
In this newly created role, Hart will be responsible for leading the continued development of CFC’s market leading cyber threat analysis, vulnerability and threat detection service which has already protected thousands of CFC customers from suffering potentially harmful cyber events.
Hart was most recently chief technology officer – EMEA, at Nasdaq-listed cybersecurity platform, Rapid7, as well as supporting a number of cyber security and technology businesses as a board adviser.
He founded one of the UK’s first ethical hacking companies, WhiteHat Security, and the world’s leading cloud-based authentication SaaS platform, CRYPTOCard.

Topics
Cyber
New Markets
Canada
London
