Drawing analogies to an epic tennis match and the hands of a clock, the leader of Bermuda-based Arch Capital declared the current hard market one of the longest the P/C industry has ever experienced.
“This is the type of well-rounded quarter we have always envisioned,” Arch Chief Executive Officer Marc Grandisson told analysts and investors late last week, as the Bermuda-based company reported second-quarter underwriting income of more than $100 million in each of the three segments in which the company participates: insurance, reinsurance and mortgage.
Reinsurance results showed the greatest hard market-driven improvement, with underwriting income up 75% to $245 million, translating to an 82.8 combined ratio as net premiums for the segment jumped nearly 47% to $1.7 billion.

“Last year, a popular topic on earnings calls was whether rate increases were slowing or whether the rates were even decreasing,” Grandisson said. He went on to reference a pivotal game in a recent Wimbledon match between Carlos Alcaraz and Novak Djokovic to make his point that the chatter is premature and that the current hard market is still in full swing.
The tennis match lasted nearly five hours, and a single game in the third set lasted more than 26 minutes, instead of the usual three or five minutes, Grandisson reported. “It was an incredible display of tenacity and athleticism. Not to mention the mental strength required to remain focused…But what really stuck with me was that kind of like this hard market, the game simply refused to end.” While there were many times when a single winning shot would have ended the game, “it just kept going.”
“About 15 minutes in, it became clear that we just needed to enjoy what we were watching and not focus on the end point,” he said. “That’s what we’re doing with this hard market, returning what the market serves us with gusto.”
“It became clear that we just needed to enjoy what we were watching and not focus on the end point. That’s what we’re doing with this hard market, returning what the market serves us with gusto.”