Specialist insurer Hiscox UK has officially launched its underwriting academy following a successful pilot in Q4 2022.
The Hiscox Underwriting Academy provides hands-on technical and professional development for high performing talent. The academy is part of a wider drive to strengthen the underwriting talent pipeline and increase the speed to competency in underwriting roles.
In Q4 2022, the Hiscox Underwriting Academy completed a successful pilot to recruit 10 new underwriters for its commercial insurance division.
The focused nature of the program has reduced the time it takes to achieve the entry level underwriting licence by two-thirds, and this is now being replicated in its personal lines division, with further intakes for commercial roles planned in April, said Hiscox.
Half of the five-month enrolment encompasses classroom-based training, and the remainder is spent in a supported live environment, before moving immediately into live underwriting roles with a level one Underwriting Licence. The academy syllabus includes CII (Chartered Insurance Institute) modules and training that will help participants achieve certification within the first year of their role.
“Competition for qualified underwriters is tough, so whilst we continue to recruit skilled underwriters with experience, we are investing heavily in nurturing new talent, with an increased focus on training, development and career management,” commented Jodi Cartwright, distribution director at Hiscox UK.
“The Hiscox Underwriting Academy provides those with underwriting aspirations an accelerated path to certification. We recruit and upskill high performing individuals, offering a training path that is fast, comprehensive and hands-on,” Cartwright added. “As the business grows, demand for exceptional underwriters will keep increasing and the academy will ensure we have a strong pipeline of technically skilled and commercially astute talent to meet that.”
Source: Hiscox

Topics
Carriers
Underwriting
