Insurers saw the third most expensive year for natural catastrophe losses in 2024 – reaching a total of US$140 billion – as climate change “is showing its claws,” according to Munich Re.
Overall economic losses from natural disasters worldwide reached US$320 billion in 2024, compared to US$268 billion in 2023 when adjusted for inflation, Munich Re said in its report, titled “Climate change is showing its claws: The world is getting hotter, resulting in severe hurricanes, thunderstorms and floods.”
Munich Re’s insured loss estimate topped Swiss Re’s nat cat estimate of $135 billion issued in December. Swiss Re noted that insured losses in 2024 surpassed $100 billion for the fifth consecutive year. (For Munich Re’s full-year nat cat fact sheet, click here.)
The overall losses and, even more so, the insured losses in 2024 were much higher than the inflation-adjusted averages of the past 10 and 30 years, said the Munich Re report, pointing to the fact that total 10- and 30-year economic losses were $236 billion and $181 billion, respectively, while insured loss averages were $94 billion and $61 billion, respectively.
Losses from non-peak perils – also known as secondary perils – such as floods, wildfires, and severe thunderstorms were again substantial, producing total losses of $136 billion, of which approximately $67 billion were insured.
This is slightly below the figures from 2023 when overall economic losses totaled $143 billion and insured losses reached a record $82 billion. However, economic and insured losses from these non-peak perils were well above the average figures of the past 10 years of $110 billion and $48 billion, respectively (adjusted for inflation).
“It is striking that, from a long-term perspective, non-peak perils are increasingly fueling the trend of rising losses, while peak risks like tropical cyclones and earthquakes continue to be a source of loss volatility,” Munich Re said.
In 2024, tropical cyclones alone contributed $135 billion to the total losses and $52 billion to insured losses, said the report, noting that the majority of these losses were caused by major U.S. hurricanes with overall losses of more than $105 billion, of which $47 billion were insured.

Severe Convective Storms
In addition to hurricanes, severe thunderstorms (also known as severe convective storms) also caused enormous damage.
In just the U.S., these storms were responsible for $57 billion in overall losses, of which $41 billion were insured, said the report, which noted that the sums are only slightly below the previous year’s record figures of $66 billion and $51 billion, making 2024 the second costliest year for this kind of storm.
“One record-breaking high after another – the consequences are devastating. The destructive forces of climate change are becoming increasingly evident, as backed up by science. Societies need to prepare for more severe weather catastrophes,” said Thomas Blunck, member of the Board of Management, in a statement.
Climate Change Shows Its Claws
Describing climate change as “showing its claws” and “taking the gloves off,” Munich Re said, weather-related catastrophes were the dominant natural catastrophe in 2024 – responsible for 93% of overall losses and 97% of insured losses. “The world is getting hotter, resulting in severe hurricanes, thunderstorms and floods.”
Last year’s losses made the consequences of global warming very clear, Munich Re said, pointing to the fact that annual average temperatures reached around 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels for the first time, which surpassed the previous record from 2023, Munich Re said. “This makes the past 11 years the warmest since the beginning of systematic record-keeping.” (Editor’s note: The goal of the 2015 Paris Agreement was to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius, or 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit, above pre-industrial levels, in order to prevent the potentially irreversible effects of climate change.)
“[I]n many regions, severe thunderstorms and heavy rainfall are becoming more frequent and more extreme,” the report said. “Although tropical cyclones are not generally increasing in number, the proportion of extreme cyclones is growing. They, in turn, are rapidly intensifying and bringing extreme precipitation with them.”
Increased Storm Severity
This was the case with Hurricanes Helene and Milton, which studies have shown “were significantly more severe and brought much more extreme rainfall than in a hypothetical world without climate change,” said Munich Re, quoting two reports from World Weather Attribution.
Munich Re cited another study from World Weather Attribution which found that climate change made the flash floods in the Valencia region of Spain twice as likely to occur.
“The physics are clear: The higher the temperature, the more water vapour and therefore energy is released into the atmosphere. Our planet’s weather machine is shifting to a higher gear,” said Chief Climate Scientist Tobias Grimm, in the report.
Other findings from the report include:

Topics
Natural Disasters
Profit Loss
Climate Change
