This edition of International People Moves details appointments at HDI Global and Amwins Global Risks.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
HDI Global Taps SCOR’s Ahn as HK Branch CEO, Lau Named Director APAC Network
HDI Global announced the appointment of Michael Ahn as chief executive officer of HDI Global SE Hong Kong. Ahn succeeds Daniel Lau who is moving into the new role of director Asia Pacific Network.
Ahn brings over 31 years insurance industry experience in leadership to HDI when he assumes the role on Nov. 1, 2024.
Currently head of Business Solutions Asia Pacific at SCOR, Ahn has a deep understanding of the Asia Pacific insurance market including extensive experience in commercial and specialty single risk lines and facultative reinsurance. He will be responsible for driving strategic growth of the Hong Kong branch office and expanding the portfolio across the region.
Daniel Lau, meanwhile, moves to the new role of director Asia Pacific Network. He has 20 years’ experience as CEO of the Hong Kong branch, and 30 years with the HDI group. As CEO he built a successful business servicing Hong Kong, China, Taiwan and South Korea insurance markets. In his new role, Lau will bring his deep technical and local insurance knowledge to drive growth in international programs.
“These appointments are in line with our HDI Global strategy for the region and Michael Ahn as CEO will bring new insights and really drive our growth aspirations. As director Asia Pacific Network, Daniel Lau will share our leading International Programme capability with his extensive networks,” commented David Hullin, member of the HDI Global SE Executive Board, responsible for region Europe (without Germany), Americas, Asean, South Africa and Middle East.
“The Asia Pacific region is important to the HDI group, and we are pleased with the opportunity to invest in local expertise,” Hullin added.
Stefan Feldmann, head of Asia Pacific HDI Global and managing director HDI Global Australia and HDI Global Specialty Australia and New Zealand, expressed gratitude to Lau “for his exceptional leadership and dedication during his tenure.”
“[Lau’s] tireless commitment has left a lasting impact on the company, and we are incredibly thankful for his contributions. I am delighted that Daniel will stay on and continue to share his experiences and grow our international program capability,” Feldmann continued.
As always, the new appointment is subject to approval by the relevant local authorities.
HDI Global SE is the Industrial Lines Division of the Talanx Group. Approximately 5,000 employees in this division generated insurance revenue (gross) of approximately €9.1 billion in the year 2023 (according to IFRS 17).
Amwins Global Risks Promotes Abraham as CEO, Succeeding Mathis, Who Returns to US
Amwins, the Charlotte, N.C.-based distributor of specialty insurance products and services, announced that Nick Abraham will succeed Nathan Mathis as chief executive officer of Amwins Global Risks, the firm’s London-based specialty distributor, effective Jan. 1, 2025.
Abraham has been part of the Amwins’ Brokerage Division leadership team since joining Amwins in November 2021. Prior to taking on his role with Amwins, Abraham held multiple leadership positions with Markel over a 17-year period.
Mathis, who has served in multiple leadership roles in London for six years, including three as CEO, will rejoin the US-based leadership team in Charlotte and will continue to focus on select key growth initiatives of the company.
“For the past 3 years, Nick has made a substantial impact across the Brokerage Division and truly embodies the Amwins servant leadership culture,” said Scott Purviance, chief executive officer of Amwins Group Inc. “His experience on the carrier side, combined with his wholesale broking knowledge, make him an ideal choice to lead the continued expansion of our London operation.”
“Under Nate’s leadership, Amwins Global Risks has firmly established itself as the leading independent Lloyd’s broker, representing more than $3 billion in placed premium. We look forward to welcoming him back to Charlotte,” said Purviance.
In addition to Abraham’s transition to CEO, Mark Cody, currently serving as managing director of Amwins Global Risks, will be named president. Cody has been a leader with Amwins Global Risks for 25 years and he will work alongside Abraham. Cody will focus on priority activities including recruitment and carrier/syndicate relationships.
James Drinkwater will continue his role as executive chair of Amwins Global Risks.
Amwins Global Risks is a specialist wholesale insurance and reinsurance broker serving clients and markets in the UK and internationally to place more than $3 billion annually of premium into the London and global marketplace.

Topics
USA
