Miller, the London-based independent specialist re/insurance broker, announced that James Hands will succeed Greg Collins as CEO of Miller. Collins will move to become chair of the Partnership Board, succeeding Graham Clarke who will retire.
The changes will take place on Jan. 1, 2023, enabling preparations for a smooth transition of responsibilities at that time. Leading up to then Hands will become CEO designate.
Hands is currently joint head of Special Risks for Miller and a member of the Group Executive Committee. In addition, Hands is also the executive sponsor of Miller’s Pride Alliance, whose goal is to ensure LGBTQ+ inclusion across the company. Hands joined Miller from Aon in 2015 where he was managing director of Europe, Middle East and Africa.
Collins was appointed as CEO in 2017, having joined Miller in 2004 to lead the professional risks business. Clarke became chair of the Partnership Board in 2017 having previously held the position of CEO of Miller from 2000-2016. He joined Miller in 1982.
“Miller has been fortunate to have had a truly outstanding CEO in Greg, he has successfully overseen the business’ return to independence while building on the culture and values that have always made this organisation special,” commented Clarke. “I have no doubt that James will be a great successor to Greg, and am proud to be able to retire from my role as chair of the Partnership Board with the business in such fine shape.”
“It is an exciting time for Miller and, as we look to accelerate our ambitious expansion plans, now is the right time for James to step into the role of CEO. In the last few years James has been responsible for overseeing some of our key growth areas and has been closely involved in a number of the strategic hires and acquisitions we have made recently,” said Collins.
Collins thanked Clarke for his 40 years at Miller. “He has been central in helping create the business we are today, and I know, I like many others have greatly benefited from his wisdom, direction and experience.”
Source: Miller

Topics
Agencies
