The Supervisory Board of Munich Re has appointed Dr. Thomas Blunck (age 57) as the chair of the Reinsurance Committee of the group’s Board of Management with effect from Jan. 1, 2023.
He will succeed Dr. Torsten Jeworrek (61), who will step down from the Board of Management of Munich Re on Dec. 31, 2022 at his own request.
The Supervisory Board has also appointed Clarisse Kopff (49), with effect from Dec. 1, 2022, and Mari-Lizette Malherbe (38), with effect from Jan. 1, 2023, as new members of the Board of Management.
Kopff will head the Europe and Latin America Non-Life division. Malherbe will take over responsibility for the Life and Health division from Thomas Blunck.
“Torsten Jeworrek’s contribution to our company has been extraordinary. I very much look forward to working closely with Mari-Lizette Malherbe, Clarisse Kopff and Thomas Blunck in their new roles,” said CEO Dr. Joachim Wenning.
Blunck joined the Board of Management in 2005. In addition to becoming the chair of the Reinsurance Committee, he will also chair the Global Underwriting and Risk Committee. On the Board of Management, he will also be responsible for Data and Analytics, Internet of Things, Corporate Underwriting, Claims, Accounting, Reinsurance Development, Controlling and Central Reserving for Reinsurance, and Information Technology.
Stefan Golling will take responsibility for Capital Partners on the Board of Management.
Originally from France, Kopff has been with the Allianz Group for the past 21 years. She is currently based in Paris, where she works as Allianz Trade’s Chief Executive Officer. She was previously CFO at Allianz France and Euler Hermes.
South African-born Malherbe has been with Munich Re since 2007, and to date headed the Life and Health Reinsurance Europe and Latin America divisional unit from London.
Jeworrek has been with the company for a total of 32 years and has been a member of the Board of Management for two decades. The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board thanked him for his many years of outstanding service at Munich Re.
Lloyd’s Market Association Appoints 3 New Board Members
The Lloyd’s Market Association (LMA) has announced the appointment of three senior market leaders to its board.
The new board members are Jane Warren, chief underwriting officer, Liberty Specialty Markets; Alex Powell, CEO, AEGIS London; and Richard Milner, CEO, Aspen Insurance UK Ltd & Aspen Managing Agency Ltd.
In addition to the three new appointments, Sheel Sawhney, group head of Claims and Operations, Brit, who joined the board earlier in the year to deputize for Matthew Wilson, is now a board member.
Matthew Wilson, Matthew Moore, Emma Woolley and David Croom-Johnson have stepped down from the board.
Sheila Cameron, LMA chief executive, commented that the new additions will further reinforce the strength and depth of the LMA Board “with their vast range of market knowledge, experience and leadership, which will be a great asset as we look to develop the LMA’s priorities for 2023.”
“I would like to thank Matthew Wilson, Matthew Moore, Emma Woolley and David Croom-Johnson for their dedication and support to the LMA’s mission and their contributions as Board members.”

Topics
Trends
Excess Surplus
Lloyd's
