Quotech, the insurtech that creates data-taming systems for specialty insurers, brokers, and MGAs, has raised £1 million from a number of angel investors and Convex Group Ltd., the international specialty insurer and reinsurer.
Proceeds from the funding round will be used to increase staff levels and provide additional resources to support the creation of custom-built technology platforms for underwriters and distributors in the global commercial and wholesale insurance sector.
Through the investment, Convex has acquired a strategic 7.7% share in London-based Quotech, whose clients include major risk carriers, brokers, and MGAs active in the London and international re/insurance markets.
“This funding will enable Quotech to move to the next level of success by increasing our reach and extending our capacity, allowing us to provide a larger number of underwriting and broking firms with truly useful technology,” commented Guillaume Bonnissent, Quotech’s chief executive and a former Lloyd’s underwriter.
“We’ve already expanded our team of systems experts, and we will soon be adding additional personnel and resources to serve more clients. It’s fantastic to receive the vote of confidence that’s implied when a client invests in our vision, after experiencing first hand the power of our approach and the systems we build,” he added.
“I gave up underwriting and returned to programming because I was frustrated by the low levels of utility delivered by the systems that had been built for the London-market companies I had worked for,” Bonnissent continued.
“Every platform we create at Quotech is designed to improve efficiency by eliminating those frustrations. Early investments in Quotech came from people who believed in me. This round is even more satisfying, because Convex and many of the angels who’ve backed the round believe in the technology.”
“We were drawn to Quotech as a supplier because they understand what we, as a London-market underwriter, need technology to do for us,” according to Convex Group CEO Paul Brand. “We’ve made a strategic investment in the company because we believe Quotech is on the path to success. There are plenty of insurTech investments out there, but very few tech companies provide the kind of truly useful systems that Quotech has built for us.”
About Quotech
Founded in 2020, Quotech builds systems that ingest data from multiple sources, pulls out what’s helpful and then stores the data in a unique Corporate Data Treasury that provides a single source of truth, the company explained. Underwriters, brokers, and others can easily access the data via intuitive, practical, embedded, connected tools that support pricing, distribution, administration, claims, and trading. Data complexity is removed for the user by presenting each with only the bits they care about.
Because founder Guillaume Bonnissent is an experienced London underwriter as well as a programmer, Quotech is able to make data-fuelled processes dramatically more efficient.

Topics
Carriers
InsurTech
Tech
Reinsurance
