Swiss Re’s commercial insurance arm, Swiss Re Corporate Solutions, has unveiled a new organizational structure, aiming to serve corporates and brokers more closely at the country level with the introduction of market units.
In addition, it announced that Katie McGrath, who is currently CEO North America, has been named chief underwriting officer of Swiss Re Corporate Solutions, effective June 1, 2025. She succeeds Kera McDonald who has been appointed Swiss Re’s group chief underwriting officer, effective on the same date.
Market Units
Swiss Re Corporate Solutions is introducing the following Market Units with the respective heads:
The new structure is expected to be effective June 1, 2025 with the designated market unit heads reporting to Ivan Gonzalez, CEO Swiss Re Corporate Solutions.
“As the commercial insurance space is rapidly evolving, customer proximity is key when it comes to navigating the increasingly complex risk landscape. We firmly believe this new set-up will help us better address market-specific customer needs and further strengthen our partnerships,” commented Gonzalez.
McGrath’s Biography
McGrath joined Swiss Re Corporate Solutions in 2019 as head Accident & Health North America. In 2022 she was appointed CEO North America. McGrath has more than 25 years of experience across multiple roles in commercial insurance with a proven track record of growing sustainable businesses, combining technical expertise with a client-focused mindset and leading high-performing teams. She will continue to be based in New York, reporting to Gonzalez.
“Following Kera’s well-deserved promotion, I am very pleased that we have such a strong successor in Katie,” commented Gonzalez. “Disciplined underwriting is key for the long-term success of our business, and I’m confident that with this appointment we are well positioned to continue delivering technical excellence for our clients.”
Source: Swiss Re

Topics
Swiss Re
