This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Guy Carpenter and Aspen Insurance Holdings.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Guy Carpenter Expands Cyber Team With Key Appointments to Global Team
Guy Carpenter, the reinsurance business of Marsh McLennan, announced the expansion of its Cyber team with a series of appointments and promotions.
Matthew McCabe has been appointed managing director of Cyber Broking, based in New York. Beyond reinsurance structure design, McCabe will support Guy Carpenter clients by leveraging his unique experience spanning broking, cybersecurity and policy to tackle complex issues, such as cyber war and the role of the public sector in risk transfer. He rejoins Marsh McLennan from Kivu Consulting, a cyber forensics company, where he was general counsel and risk officer. Previously, he was a senior vice president at Marsh, responsible for cyber policy, and prior to that, he served in policy and counsel roles with the US government.
Souki Chahid has been named head of International Cyber Analytics. In this role, Chahid is responsible for managing Guy Carpenter’s market-leading cyber analytics suite to the international market, including modeling capabilities and proprietary cyber data, to ensure alignment between Guy Carpenter’s analytical services and clients’ strategic goals. Chahid will partner closely with Jess Fung, head of North America Cyber Analytics, and The Marsh McLennan Cyber Risk Analytics Center, which supports Marsh McLennan clients with a cross-business focus on model development, risk quantification and better understanding the factors driving cyber risk. Chahid joined from CFC, where she was cyber modeling manager, and will be based in London.
Zain Awan has been named international cyber ILS lead, with responsibility for further strengthening Guy Carpenter’s analytical and transactional capabilities to support the growth of the sector. He will also partner with GC Securities to structure and deliver cyber insurance-linked securities transactions. He was most recently senior vice president, Reinsurance Broker & Actuary, in Guy Carpenter’s London Cyber team.
“These appointments signal our continued investment in this critical space. They join a formidable team of cyber experts across the company, who are helping organizations understand, quantify and manage cyber risk,” said Erica Davis, global co-head of Cyber, Guy Carpenter. “This demonstrates Guy Carpenter’s commitment to fostering innovation in the dynamic cyber re/insurance arena, and building an experienced team ready to attract new capital, innovate new structures and advance the use of analytics in the sector.”
Additionally, Grace Seigle has joined Guy Carpenter as a cyber broker based in New York. She will serve the business’ global client base and focus on sourcing capital for the underdeveloped cyber retrocession market. She joins from Gallagher Re.
“We are committed to delivering advancements in integrated analytics and broking that address our clients’ changing needs,” said Anthony Cordonnier, global co-head of Cyber, Guy Carpenter. “Through these appointments, we will be better able to partner with our clients to identify portfolio growth opportunities, bring expertise to complex risk issues, and create a broad range of cyber risk transfer solutions for the global market. As the quality of data and the depth of cyber models improve, we will take our analytics and modeling capabilities to the next level to attract additional capacity into the space.”
Aspen Appoints AXA XL’s Welch as Chief Underwriting Officer, Reinsurance
Aspen Insurance Holdings Ltd. has appointed John Welch as chief underwriting officer, Reinsurance, starting on June 26.
Welch brings over 30 years of global experience in reinsurance, including executive roles across global players. He was most recently chief executive, Domestic Markets, at AXA XL Re, where he led local reinsurance underwriting teams around the world. He previously held a number of senior roles at AXA XL, XL Catlin Group and XL Group.
In this role, Welch will lead and be accountable for Aspen Reinsurance, including designing and delivering the underwriting strategy for the segment. Welch will report to Christian Dunleavy, group chief underwriting officer, join the group Executive Committee and will be based in Stamford, Conn.

Topics
Cyber
Underwriting
Reinsurance
AXA XL
