This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Everest Reinsurance and BMS Re.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Everest Re Taps Nationwide’s Rudow as Global Head of Cyber Reinsurance
Everest Reinsurance, the reinsurance division of Everest Re Group Ltd., announced that Catherine Rudow will join the company as global head of Cyber Reinsurance, reporting to Jill Beggs, head of North America Reinsurance.
In this newly created role, Rudow will be responsible for managing Everest’s cyber reinsurance business while driving consistent underwriting best practices and guidelines across the division globally. She will also focus on cultivating both new and existing broker and customer relationships and working to establish customized reinsurance solutions that keep pace with the evolving cyber risk landscape.
Rudow brings deep reinsurance and insurance cyber underwriting experience and has expertise managing portfolios of cyber business, developing and executing on cyber-specific strategies and establishing industry-wide connections. Most recently, she served as a vice president for Nationwide E&S where she executed on a cyber strategy for Nationwide Enterprise resulting in portfolio diversification and product expansion. Prior to that, she held several leadership roles at Partner Reinsurance Co. of the U.S.
Rudow holds a Master of Business Administration from Yale University and undergraduate degree from Concordia University.
“With new threats emerging globally at an unprecedented rate, the need for cyber reinsurance solutions has become increasingly significant,” commented Jim Williamson, Everest Group COO and head of Reinsurance. “We are investing in the people and expertise that position us to support our clients and brokers, and Catherine’s extensive insights into this nuanced market are critical to serving our customers.”
“Catherine’s depth of experience and specialized expertise will be valuable assets to Everest as we continue to strategically and thoughtfully deploy more capacity where it is needed most,” said Beggs.
BMS Re Names McDowell as Bermuda CEO, Binetti Head of Casualty Treaty
BMS Re, the London-based specialty reinsurance broker, announced the appointment of Chris McDowell as CEO of BMS Re Bermuda, effective Nov. 26, 2022, following completion of his notice period and any requisite regulatory approvals. Mario Binetti also joins as head of casualty treaty and actuarial for BMS Re Bermuda, effective immediately. McDowell and Binetti will both be based in Bermuda.
McDowell has had a long and distinguished career of more than 30 years in reinsurance, operating at the most senior levels. He joins BMS Re from his most recent role as CEO of Gallagher Re Bermuda (formerly Willis Re Bermuda). Prior to this, McDowell worked at Aon Benfield where he was CEO of Global Re Specialty in Bermuda.
Binetti, with more than 30 years’ experience in reinsurance, joins from Everest Re Bermuda, where he served as head of casualty treaty underwriting and actuarial. Before this, he was senior vice president and chief actuary at JRG Re in Bermuda.
“Chris is one of the most experienced and respected brokers in the Bermuda reinsurance and retrocessional market, having held leadership roles on the island for more than 18 years. Mario’s technical and analytical expertise enable us to further develop our casualty and specialty reinsurance offering,” commented Adam Mullan, executive chairman of BMS Re Bermuda, a unit that was launched in Q4 2021.

Topics
Cyber
Reinsurance
Casualty
