This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Howden and Argenta Syndicate Management.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Howden Taps Marsh’s Bayon de La Tour as International Head of Cyber
Howden, the London-based global insurance group, announced the appointment of Jean Bayon de La Tour as international head of Cyber, effective immediately.
Starting his career in banking with various roles in wealth management and internal audit, Bayon de La Tour previously led Marsh’s cyber broking operations in France, and was later appointed managing director and head of Cyber for Marsh Europe.
He will continue to be based in Spain, and will report to Shay Simkin, group global head of Cyber.
Argenta Promotes Davidson to Lead New Energy Transition Offering
Argenta Syndicate Management Ltd. (ASML), a subsidiary of Argenta Holdings Ltd., announced the promotion of Edward Davidson to the newly created role of energy transition technology underwriter, effective immediately. Based in London, Davidson will report to Heath Callan, divisional head of energy and marine.
Davidson’s appointment is indicative of Argenta’s commitment to supporting a net-zero carbon future. He will be supported by the wider energy team in London, including Sarah Warren who was recently appointed as head of energy having joined from Dale Underwriting Partners where she held the role of class underwriter, upstream energy.
Davidson’s insurance career began at Argenta in 2015, where he went on to build his considerable energy market expertise and standing. His reputation as an innovator in this space is well known, evidenced by Lloyd’s naming him the Marine and Energy Under 35s Young Energy Underwriter of the Year in 2019.
While wind and solar solutions continue to grow, other parts of the energy transition sector are still evolving. Emerging and prototypical technology risks are a key part of Argenta’s overall energy transition strategy and this new offering will support alternative fuel, carbon capture and renewable energy operations and technologies; all vital components in a net zero future.
“By supporting our partners and clients with the solutions, guidance and services they need to adapt their business models, we will be playing an important role in the transition to a lower carbon global economy,” commented Ian Burford, director of underwriting and active underwriter of Argenta Syndicate Management Ltd.’s Syndicate 2121 and SPA 6134 said. “Ed’s appointment is a significant milestone in our commitment to realising our own ESG ambitions and will build upon the expertise we already have in our energy team.”
“[Davidson’s] appointment further underlines Argenta’s continued investment in, and commitment to, insurance as a solution to the world’s transition to a low-carbon economy and comes shortly after our decision to adopt Moody’s ESG Underwriting solution and leverage their ESG, climate and financial data, models and analytics to decode risk and unlock opportunities in our underwriting and investment portfolios,” Callan said.
“As well as having the right tools, it is crucial that we have expert talent to identify how to mitigate and manage the risk. Ed will be essential in the growth of our collective expertise and expansion of our offering,” he added.

Topics
Cyber
