This edition of Interational People Moves details appointments at the brokers Price Forbes and WTW.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Price Forbes Bermuda Promotes Kelley to CEO
Price Forbes Bermuda announced the promotion of Carrie Kelley to the role of chief executive officer.
Kelley has been a driving force behind Price Forbes Bermuda in her role as managing director and will now take on full responsibility for Price Forbes Bermuda operations. She will report into Chris Bonard, CEO of Ardonagh Specialty (Bermuda) Ltd. and group president of Price Forbes Re. (Ardonagh Group is the parent of Ardonagh Specialty and Price Forbes Re.)
Kelley has more than two decades of experience in the insurance industry, with a career spanning both broking and underwriting within the Bermuda and U.S. markets. Prior to joining Price Forbes Bermuda in 2019, Kelley held senior roles in broking and underwriting at firms including Barbican Underwriting Bermuda, Bowring Marsh Bermuda, Guy Carpenter Bermuda, and Marsh USA.
“We are delighted to appoint Carrie as CEO of Price Forbes Bermuda. Our business is in an exciting phase and Carrie’s extensive experience and leadership within the Bermuda and U.S. markets make her the perfect choice to lead us into our next chapter,” commented Bonard.
This appointment is subject to regulatory and Bermuda Immigration approval.
London-based Ardonagh Specialty is the growth platform for leading independent brokers Price Forbes and Price Forbes Re.
WTW Gets Saudi Arabian License, Names Chubb’s Bahafi as Head of Insurance Broking
Insurance broker WTW announced it has secured an insurance license to act as an insurance broker in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (K.S.A).
Talal Omar Bahafi has been appointed as the new head of Insurance Broking, WTW Saudi Arabia, based in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Previously chief executive officer at Chubb Arabia Insurance Company, Bahafi has extensive experience of building a forward-thinking, and performance-oriented culture, driving strategic growth across the region.
Prior to Chubb, Bahafi also worked at Marsh McLennan where he was responsible for delivering overall market strategy for the Kingdom.
“At WTW we are committed to supporting our clients across the globe. Securing our insurance broker license for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia further strengthens our leading global network,” commented Pamela Thomson-Hall, head of International.
“We are delighted to have Talal on board to drive growth opportunities in this exciting market. Today’s announcement is a continuation of our growth strategy to bring global insights to clients around the world through our teams of deep specialists,” Thomson-Hall said.
“This is a significant development in WTW’s ambitions for growth in this region. We are delighted to have Talal in place to support our clients’ needs across the region,” according to Eleni Lykoudi, head of CEEMΕA.

Topics
Chubb
Willis Towers Watson
