International General Insurance Holdings Ltd. announced it will move its London operations to new offices on the 15th floor of the so-called “Walkie-Talkie” building at 20 Fenchurch Street, London, EC3M 3BY on Monday, Oct. 28, 2024.
IGI said the move reflects the growth of the company’s principal underwriting hub, the significant progress made in recent years, and the company’s continued commitment to the London market.
“We are excited about this move, especially to such a prestigious location, and we’re delighted to be in the company of a number of our respected London market peers in the Walkie Talkie building,” said Waleed Jabsheh, IGI President and CEO, who is based in London.
“The IGI Group has grown substantially over the past five years and our London team has expanded as we have entered new lines and markets and enhanced the teams that support our global underwriting,” Jabsheh added. “This relocation allows us to continue that build out, and with all our people now being situated on one floor, it enhances our ability to collaborate more effectively with each other. It also offers a more suitable space for engaging more actively with our clients and brokers.”
More than 130 people will be based in the new office, including 60 underwriters able to write across the following business lines: energy, property, general aviation, construction & engineering, ports & terminals, marine cargo, marine trades, contingency, political violence, financial institutions, legal expenses, professional indemnity, D&O, marine liability, and reinsurance treaty business.
Registered in Bermuda and established in 2001, IGI is an international specialty risks commercial re/insurer, which also has operations in London, Malta, Dubai, Amman, Oslo, Kuala Lumpur and Casablanca.
Source: International General Insurance Holdings
Photograph: People walk past the City of London skyline Photo credit: Vuk Valcic/SOPA Images/LightRocket/Getty Images

Topics
Underwriting
London
