Gallagher Re, the global reinsurance broker, announced it has launched a global practice focusing on public sector and climate resilience solutions, with responsibility for developing Gallagher Re’s core offering globally and driving profitability as well as developmental impact.
Antoine Bavandi has been appointed to the newly created role of global head of Public Sector, Parametric & Climate Resilience Solutions, effective immediately.
Based in London, he will report to Printhan Sothinathan, CEO of Gallagher Re’s Global Analytics and Advisory, and work in close partnership with existing public/private solutions teams and regional specialists located around the world.
As head of the Public Sector & Climate Resilience Solutions global practice, Bavandi will have responsibility for developing Gallagher Re’s core offering globally and driving profitability as well as developmental impact. The new practice will work closely with the Global Climate and ESG Analytics and Advisory function, led by Ed Messer.
Bavandi brings more than 17 years of experience and joins Gallagher Re from his most recent position as senior climate & disaster risk finance specialist at The World Bank. In his previous role, he was responsible for advising governments, insurance and banking sector clients on the financial risk management of climate and catastrophe events through an analytics-driven approach to risk transfer strategies and derivative products.
Prior to this, Bavandi worked at ArgoGlobal and Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty as a catastrophe risk portfolio manager and class underwriter. He has extensive experience of working across both public and private sectors with a focus on transactions, strategic and analytical advisory.
The practice will help to manage and reduce the financial impact of climate and disaster risks on governments, re/insurers, banks and businesses worldwide. Its focus will be on promoting financial preparedness, de-risking strategies, and leveraging established and innovative risk management tools, including through weather derivatives and parametric products.
The practice will provide comprehensive climate resilience and adaptation solutions, working alongside advanced and emerging economies to accelerate the shift towards more sustainable development.

Topics
Climate Change
A.J. Gallagher
