In striking contrast to last year’s double-digit rate hikes for public directors and officers liability insurance and 100-200% jumps for cyber coverage, some buyers renewing those coverages this spring won’t see their insurance bills increase at all.

And many will see double-digit declines, according to the latest Insurance Marketplace Realities Report published by global broker and advisory firm WTW in late April. On the low end of the range of rate changes projected by WTW experts in this year’s report, public D&O insurance buyers could see rates actually drop as much as 10%, and cyber insurance buyers might experience flat renewals.
“The strong financial market in the last few years has mitigated claims activity, and insurance carriers are aggressively pursuing market share, which is helping drive down pricing at rates unseen in more than a decade,” John Drummond, WTW’s head of Broking, North America, wrote in the executive summary to the latest report.
Separately, Aon reported the sharpest declines in D&O insurance pricing in more than a decade for the first quarter of 2023.
The broker view was supported by insurance carrier executives including RLI Corp. Chief Operating Officer Jen Klobnak, W.R. Berkley Corp. President Robert Berkley, Chubb Chief Executive Officer Evan Greenberg, and Markel Corp. Insurance Operations President Jeremy Noble, who called out the line as one they are cautious about during first-quarter earnings conference calls.
Klobnak reported a broker tally of the 20 newcomers to public D&O market in recent months. “We believe these new entrants are late to the party and are providing brokers with more mouths to feed,” she said, noting that premium for RLI’s Executive Products Group dropped 14% in the quarter.
Berkley described the large account D&O marketplace as being “in a state of free fall as far as rate adequacy or pricing.” Like Klobnak, Berkley noted the new entrants and added that there isn’t new demand to balance the new supply. “We have seen a dramatic reduction in IPOs,” Berkley said. “We’ve just seen a dramatic reduction in a lot of the activity that would drive D&O purchasing,” he said.
“The reality is that the demand has been reduced and the supply has increased, and that has led to an unattractive, competitive environment from our perspective.”
Carrier View vs. Broker View. While Chubb’s Greenberg was reporting the balance of his observations tilting in the direction of improved pricing from a carrier perspective, WTW’s Drummond said, “The long curve, the larger trend, is bending in a positive direction for buyers.”