The Lloyd’s re/insurance marketplace announced the next 11 insurtech start-ups that will join the eighth cohort of the Lloyd’s Lab in its 10-week program.
Lloyd’s Lab, the market’s innovation accelerator, brings together insurtech, insurers, and brokers to test new, innovative solutions. The teams will be working to create insurance products to address the issues and challenges facing the Lloyd’s market.
The global program received over 150 applications, from which 11 successful teams were selected to form the next cohort of the Lloyd’s Lab, beginning on April 25, 2022.
For the eighth cohort, the insurtechs have been selected based on solutions geared towards four key themes: decarbonization and climate change; supply chains; data and models, and claims.
Lloyd’s Lab also accepted wildcard entrants who presented solutions outside of the core themes, such as space safety and contract review.
“It’s really exciting to be welcoming the 11 successful teams to the Lloyd’s Lab for our eighth cohort. We’ve invited insurtechs to address some of the most pressing issues the Lloyd’s market faces, from supporting the transition to a low carbon economy to getting better at dealing with business interruption claims,” commented Ed Gaze, senior manager, Lloyd’s Lab.
“We’re delighted to be working with some of the most innovative insurtechs in the world and look forward to seeing how they help our market, customers and society progress,” Gaze added.
The teams selected for Lloyd’s Lab cohort eight are:
Source: Lloyd’s

Topics
InsurTech
Excess Surplus
Tech
Lloyd's
Climate Change
