Aston Lark Ireland announced it has agreed terms to acquire Marine & General Insurances DAC.
Terms of the deal, which is subject to regulatory approval, were not disclosed.
Based in Dublin, Marine & General provides bespoke solutions to individuals and businesses, offering a wide range of general insurances, financial services and life and pensions products, said Aston Lark in a statement. In addition, the company boasts an impressive team of talented and highly motivated professionals that have driven the business onwards and upwards.
Established in 1972, the founding principles of Marine & General have remained the same ever since, with the client being paramount and central to every decision taken by the company. To this day the team, led by Colm Tyndall and Gavin Kennedy, attributes their success over the last 50 years to the exceptional experience and service provided to all clients.
This is the eighth acquisition made by Aston Lark Ireland, following the acquisitions of North County Brokers, O’Loughlin Insurance Group, McMahon Galvin Limited, Brady Burns & Associates, Principal Insurance Ireland, Abbey Murphy Insurance and Brassington Insurance.
“Marine & General Insurances DAC has built up an enviable reputation over the years as a broker providing exemplary service and striving to put their clients’ interests at the heart of everything they do,” commented Robert Kennedy, Aston Lark Ireland CEO.
“Since joining Marine and General in 1982, I had no intention of ever changing the successful model of the business. However, after chatting with Robert Kennedy, it became very apparent that our shared values and principles, particularly regarding staff and clients, were closely aligned, allowing for a perfect fit for the future growth of our business,” said Colm Tyndall, director at Marine & General.
“With the ever-changing insurance market in recent years, it became very apparent if I wanted to secure the future for our clients and staff, the opportunity to join Aston Lark could not be missed,” according to Gavin Kennedy, director at Marine & General. “This will afford us access to markets and expertise we never previously had in our arsenal, giving us an opportunity for future expansion and opportunities for staff and clients alike.”
Aston Lark Ireland is a subsidiary of the Aston Lark Group, the insurance broker that is currently backed by Goldman Sachs and will soon become part of Howden.
Source: Aston Lark Ireland

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
