Specialist insurer Beazley has launched a new private equity liability insurance product, designed to focus on the inherent directors and officers (D&O) risks within the long-term lifecycle of portfolios held by private equity firms.
Across the full lifecycle of investments, private equity firms and their directors face a host of challenging boardroom risks. Beazley’s new private equity liability product covers the lifecycle of portfolios – from the purchase of an asset through to the exit strategy.
The policy includes transparent pricing, automatic renewal clauses and reduced administration to enable private equity directors to focus on their growth ambitions.
“Private equity firms and their directors require specialist D&O cover, and this product brings a unique approach to the sector. Our market-leading D&O policies bring confidence and peace of mind – and with this product we can provide our private equity customers with a leading D&O risk mitigation solution,” commented Emma Pereira, product leader – International Management Liability at Beazley.
Beazley caters for the entire spectrum of insurance needs in the private equity sector, with its complementary Cyber, Mergers & Acquisitions (M&A) and SME D&O cover for portfolio firms. Post exit, it can offer D&O cover for publicly traded companies through its leading International Management Liability team.
The new product is available via the London market and worldwide (excluding US domiciled businesses).
Source: Beazley

Topics
Liability
New Markets
