This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Gallagher Re and Sompo International.
A summary of these new hires follow here.
Gallagher Re Taps RenRe’s Allard to Lead Global Credit & Political Risk
Global reinsurance broker Gallagher Re has welcomed Jonathan Allard as managing director and head of its newly created Global Credit & Political Risk team, based in London.
In this new global role, Allard will bring together the experienced, specialist London market and international teams and be responsible for leading and developing Gallagher Re’s global product offering across credit and political risk, enabling clients to access both treaty and facultative solutions. He will also partner with Jim Latorre who leads the distinct North American Surety team to develop the surety arena across the world.
Allard brings a wealth of knowledge and reinsurance market experience, having specialized in credit, surety and political risk from the very outset of his broking career. He joins from Renaissance Re where he was vice president of Underwriting responsible for the management and underwriting of credit, surety and political risk reinsurance as well as structured credit portfolio accounts on European and Lloyd’s balance sheets. Prior to this, Allard spent 10 years broking credit, surety and political risk at Willis Re.
Mark Jenkins simultaneously assumes the position of Chairman of the Global Credit & Political Risk team.
 Sompo Int’l Names Heads of Claims and Distribution & Client Relationship Mgmt, Insurance, Continental Europe
Sompo International, the commercial and consumer property/casualty re/insurer, announced the appointments of Anna Lisiak as head of Claims, Insurance, Continental Europe, and Herndon Stokes as head of Distribution & Client Relationship Management, Insurance, Continental Europe.
Both will be based in Zurich and report to Ralph Brand, president, Continental Europe Insurance. Stokes has a secondary reporting line into Brendan Plessis, head of Distribution, Business Development and Client Management, Insurance, Global Markets.
Lisiak joins from Generali GCC in Milan, Italy, where she most recently was head of Specialty Claims. Prior to that, she held claims roles with Allianz in Munich, Germany and Warta in Gdynia, Poland.
Stokes joins from AXIS Re in Zurich, Switzerland,where he most recently was broker executive, head of Distribution. Previously, he held client management and corporate development roles with Munich Re.

Topics
Claims
A.J. Gallagher
