“If you build it, they will come.” This famous, but paraphrased, quote from the film “Field of Dreams” is apropos of the fledgling carbon removal industry.
The demand is there, but supply needs to be built. The carbon removal industry needs to scale up quickly to provide a vital tool to cut greenhouse gas emissions to net zero by 2050.
Insurers and reinsurers can play an essential role as institutional investors, as buyers of carbon removal certificates in their own pursuit of net zero and, of course, provide the traditional risk transfer protections. (See related article: Insurance Industry Support of Carbon Removal Needed in Drive to Net Zero.)
The carbon removal industry will have to scale up from some 10,000 tonnes of negative emissions today to around 10 billion tonnes each year by 2050, according to a Swiss Re Institute report titled “The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions,” which was published in July 2021.
The good news is that awareness of the need for net-zero emissions is high and growing. Swiss Re said this is an acknowledgement in both public and private sectors of the need to double-down on emission reduction efforts and to build a carbon removal industry capable of quickly delivering negative emissions (within three decades) and scale (10-20 billion tonnes per year).
Climate scientists agree that emissions reduction won’t be enough. The world will also need carbon removal.
“There’s much more demand at the moment than there is supply when it comes to high-quality, permanent carbon removal,” according to Antti Vihavainen, CEO of Puro.earth, the carbon removal marketplace. He spoke during the 6th Puro.earth Carbon Removal Ecosystem Meeting held in April 2022.
The carbon removal market “is still pretty small and needs support to scale, to meet the challenges that we have in the future, if all companies are to meet [their] net-zero commitments,” said Chris Minter, sustainable sourcing lead, Zurich Insurance Group, who also spoke at the meeting.
“In the last year, we have seen huge corporate demand for carbon removal in the immediate term, but the market is still supply constrained, and many projects will only produce carbon removal in the 12-to-24-month time frame,” said Puro.earth in a statement. “The supply crunch will get worse as awareness keeps spreading exponentially for corporates and companies who have pledged to net zero in the coming years scramble to fulfill those commitments.”
Building a Fledging Industry
But there are ways to help build the fledging industry—for example, by providing offtake agreements, which Puro.earth has described “as a game-changer for the planet.” In essence, these offtake agreements are commitments to buying CO2 Removal Certificates (CORCs), or carbon credits, from existing or planned carbon removal facilities at set price points several years into the future. CORCs are sold on Puro.earth’s marketplace on behalf of carbon removal suppliers, each of whom are verified by Puro.earth’s third-party audit partners. Generically, throughout the industry, CORCs are known as carbon credits. (See sidebar below for more information on CORCs.)
The agreements provide funding, which helps carbon removal developers start new operations or expand existing ones, Puro.earth explained in an email. However, this type of contract recognizes the uncertainty for delivery from such early-stage operations.
Money typically comes to money, said Vihavainen during the meeting. As a result, if a corporate buyer enters an offtake agreement with a supplier, it is more likely that the same supplier will be able to access capital “to actually make the facility come true.”
Vihavainen described offtake agreements as a “crucial step” in developing the carbon removal industry. “We’re finally seeing that these long-term offtake agreements are materializing to new facilities—exactly what the market needs.”
Long-term offtake agreements for carbon removal projects provide predictable future cashflows for suppliers, which will enable more projects to raise equity and obtain loans to start or expand, said Puro.earth.
In August last year, Swiss Re signed a long-term offtake agreement with Climeworks, the direct air capture and storage (DACS) specialist in Iceland, which filters CO2 directly from air and stores it permanently in nearby rock layers. The purchase agreement is worth $10 million over 10 years.
“At a price point of several hundred dollars per tonne of CO2 removed, it is at present also one of the costliest options,” said Swiss Re in a statement announcing the deal. “Larger, more economical air-capture and storage facilities can only be realized if customers are committed to long-term purchasing agreements. They guarantee a future revenue stream to the developers, making new projects fundable.”
Prepurchase Agreements
There are also the less risky carbon removal contracts called prepurchase agreements, a type of offset agreement. These are simple standard contracts where a commitment is made to buy future carbon removal credits from existing carbon removal facilities at set price points several years into the future. With these contracts, however, there is little uncertainty for the delivery of the so-called CORCs, Puro.earth said.
Zurich Insurance this year entered into several prepurchase agreements with three carbon capture companies—two for biochar production and one that uses woody biomass burial.
Vihavainen at Puro.earth said biochar is the most sought after type of CORC. Biochar is created from heating plant-based biomass in the absence of oxygen in a process called pyrolysis, which forms charcoal.
Essentially, Zurich has agreed to purchase and even pay in advance to secure carbon removal certificates that haven’t yet been produced. These prepurchase agreements provide advance funding that will help these suppliers “get up and running and/or scale up,” Zurich explained on its website.
The prepurchase agreements not only give the suppliers comfort that Zurich is happy to connect contractually, but they also give comfort to suppliers’ investors “so they can scale and support their businesses,” said Minter. In addition to signing fixed-price, long-term agreements, Zurich also made upfront payments as well and “will make further payments, subject to the providers meeting agreed milestones.”
Zurich invested in biochar and woody biomass burial solutions having decided to initially focus on nature-based solutions, said Minter, noting that these solutions currently have a much lower cost point than direct air capture. Zurich aimed to find a balance between supporting the projects and helping them to scale, “but also managing our own risk and making prudent investment and purchasing decisions.”
Defining Carbon Removal Certification
Zurich Insurance defines carbon removal certification as “an independently verified document that confirms that 1 metric ton of CO2e has been removed from the atmosphere and stored for the long term using a verified removal method. The certificate is issued to the supplier and purchased by a buyer who wants to reduce their emissions in a trusted, credible way.”
Swiss Re said that corporate buyers require attestation that the carbon removal service actually captures and stores a certain amount of carbon from the atmosphere. “The attestation is usually in the form of a carbon certificate per tonne removed. The price of the certificate is the price a buyer is willing to pay voluntarily to compensate for unavoidable emissions,” Swiss Re said in its report on carbon removal solutions.