Executive Summary: The potential for satellite technology to revolutionize claims management has long been recognized but has only recently been realized with technological advancements. Satellite-based data can give the insurer a “head start” on the event, according to Stephen Lathrope and Andy Read at the ICEYE, the microsatellite manufacturer and catastrophe monitoring company.
The integration of new technologies into the claims ecosystem is gathering pace as insurance and reinsurance organizations seek to enhance both the speed and accuracy of payments. One example is the advancement in satellite capabilities.
Radar satellite technology is helping carriers gain near real-time hazard insights on flood and wildfire perils anywhere on the planet at data resolution levels previously not possible. Such information supports enhanced claims triage, prompt—sometimes instant—claims settlements, efficient resource distribution and sharper post-event capital allocation.
So, how has this technological leap “up” come about?
New Level of Remote Sensing
Traditional optical and radar satellites have been around for decades, but such technology is limited in its ability to image with the frequency, clarity and accuracy needed to support the critical claims-related operational decisions insurers must make during a loss event.
Over the last five to 10 years, however, the emergence of new space technologies and the growth of the private space industry has radically expanded the potential of satellite technology. Two developments in particular stand out.
First, new manufacturing techniques and design changes have significantly reduced the weight, manufacturing times and cost of satellite production. This has facilitated the development of larger satellite constellations which now orbit the Earth much more frequently, imaging relevant areas of the planet much more quickly, with much higher revisit rates.
The other groundbreaking advancement is in synthetic aperture radar (SAR) technology. Unlike optical systems, SAR sensors emit their own energy to illuminate and record objects or areas on the ground. This provides the unique advantage of being able to acquire images day and night, since no sunlight is needed.
Also, SAR sensors can pierce clouds, rain, fog and smoke—a game-changer when trying to assess damage concealed by slow-moving weather systems or smoke from wildfires.
In the past, the key limiting factor with SAR was the cost and scale of the equipment making satellites cumbersome and inflexible and limiting revisit rates. SAR miniaturization means this technology can be integrated into smaller and more agile satellites, which can revisit locations multiple times per day and provide a level of image resolution not possible before.
Combining these two advancements means actionable data can now be delivered directly to insurers— sometimes within hours—as a natural catastrophe event, such as a flood or wildfire, is developing. This provides a completely new level of situational awareness and understanding of the impact on policyholders in almost real time.
Elevated Loss Perspective: Capturing Idalia
SAR imagery and satellite constellations in and of themselves, however, do not provide the hazard insights necessary to enhance the claims process. That is where advances in AI and machine learning and the breadth of specialist expertise from the fields of meteorology and advanced geospatial analytics come into play.
Let’s use the recent example of Hurricane Idalia to demonstrate the stages from image capture to producing the actionable information that delivers the heightened situational awareness so important to the claims process.
On Aug. 26, Tropical Storm Idalia formed in the Gulf of Mexico. At that point, ICEYE’s meteorological team had already been monitoring the development of the weather system for 24 hours. (ICEYE is a Finland-based microsatellite manufacturer and catastrophe monitoring company. The authors are executives of the company.) On Aug. 29, the day before the storm made landfall in Florida’s Big Bend region as a Category 3 hurricane, the data capture and analysis processes were well underway.
This involves the capture of SAR imagery along the track of the storm plus auxiliary data sources all filtered through a custom algorithm. For flood, sources include elevation models, water sensors and river gauges, plus other open-source evidence of flood-related developments.
Applying these multiple lenses to the flood means an accurate depiction of the event can be generated that is granular enough to show not only the extent of the water but also the water depth in feet at the individual building level within hours of the flood reaching its peak.
In the case of Idalia, ICEYE analyzed over 7,000 properties that had been inundated by floodwater across Steinhatchee and Suwanee, Fla., and Charleston, S.C., where 535 properties had experienced flood waters exceeding five feet, 623 properties between two and five feet, and 5,844 up to five feet.
Apply this technology to the wildfire context, and a similar level of rapid situational awareness is possible. SAR sensors can pierce the smoke as the event is developing and register whether a particular property has remained intact or been destroyed simply by analyzing the outline of the building.
Supercharging Claims Process
This new level of situational awareness is creating opportunities to ramp up key stages in the claims process, from preemptive actions through to post-event analysis.
Satellite-based data can give the insurer a “head start” on the event. By monitoring weather activity or small-scale wildfires near built-up areas, carriers can put staff on alert for a potential loss. Should the conditions develop, and the data show the emergence of an event likely to impact people or assets, this information can be used to trigger preemptive communications to at-risk policyholders encouraging them to take safety measures to protect lives and locations.
As the loss event evolves and high-resolution impact data becomes available, which in the case of a flood will include extent and inundation information at the property level, or for wildfire the number of buildings destroyed, the carrier can gain a rapid understanding of the scale of the loss. By mapping their property-specific portfolio data to the hazard information for the affected area, they can quickly establish the portfolio impact of the event.
If the data shows a single-story property is inundated to a level of eight feet during a flood, the carrier may wish to expedite the claims process and pay the loss quickly—without the expense of bringing in a loss adjuster.