This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Tokio Marine HCC International and the broker Miller.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Tokio Marine HCC Taps SCOR’s Hannay to Lead New Power Proposition
Tokio Marine HCC International (TMHCCI), a member of the Tokio Marine HCC group of companies, has announced the appointment of Nicola Hannay as head of Power Generation in its London-based energy practice. She takes up her new role with immediate effect and reports to Ben Kinder, chief underwriting officer – Marine, Energy and Renewables.
Hannay joins from SCOR, where she served, most recently, as global head of Power in SCOR’s Business Solutions division. She brings nearly three decades of experience to her new role and has built and led profitable power portfolios at a series of businesses including AXA XL and AIG.
Hannay will work in tandem with and complement TMHCCI’s wider renewable offering led by GCube, the leading underwriter for renewable energy projects, providing clients with a comprehensive solution to insuring energy transition.
This appointment will see TMHCCI further expand its energy offering – covering thermal power plants, hydroelectric, solar power, geothermal, alternative power generation and mixed technology portfolios, the company said.
TMHCCI’s power portfolio comprises regulated and non-regulated producers, national and multinational power and utility companies, independent power producers as well as infrastructure investment and fund asset owners.
Headquartered in Houston, Texas, Tokio Marine HCC is a member of the Tokio Marine Group, a global company founded in 1879 with a market capitalization of $46 billion as of Sept. 30, 2023.
Miller Hires Kennedy From Shell International for Energy Team
Miller, the London-based independent specialist re/insurance broker, announced the appointment of Hayley Kennedy to the position of client advocate across the Upstream and Onshore Energy teams. Kennedy is based in London and reports to Martin Henderson, head of Energy & Construction at Miller.
Kennedy joins from Shell International where she was risk manager & deputy chair of the enABLE Network. Most recently, she was seconded to Petroleum Development Oman as head of Insurance.
Prior to this, she was at Aon Singapore where she was placement director leading the Offshore Energy team. She began her career at Marsh where she was ultimately responsible for the Offshore Drilling & FPSO Contractor book of business.
At Miller, Kennedy will focus on client development and tenders with a particular focus on the MENA region.