This edition of International People Moves details appointments at the broker Marsh and the managing general agency Rokstone.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Marsh Names Former AXA XL Exec as UK Chair
Marsh, the world’s leading insurance broker and risk advisor and a business of Marsh McLennan, announced the appointment of Nigel Hinshelwood as chair of Marsh Ltd. in the UK.
Subject to regulatory approval, Hinshelwood will succeed Tom Colraine on March 31, 2025.
Hinshelwood brings extensive experience to the role having served as a non-executive director in the financial services and insurance sector. He has served as a non-executive director of Lloyd’s Franchise Board, chair of AXA XL Underwriting Agencies Ltd. and AXA XL Insurance Co. UK Ltd., and a non-executive director of Nordea.
He currently holds several external appointments, including senior independent director at Lloyds Bank, International Advisory Council Member of Adobe Systems Software, and Advisory Council Member of International Association of Credit Portfolio Managers.
Prior to his non-executive roles, Hinshelwood held several executive roles at HSBC including head of HSBC UK, deputy CEO of HSBC Bank plc, global head of Operations and head of HSBC Insurance Holdings. Previously he was a partner at Ernst and Young.
“Nigel brings extensive experience of operating in the financial services sector to this role, both in the UK and worldwide. His advice will be invaluable as we enhance our operations, develop innovative solutions for our clients, and grow our UK business,” commented Chris Lay, CEO of Marsh McLennan UK.
He went on to thank Colraine for the contribution he has made to the firm. “I have hugely valued his leadership and counsel over the years and wish him all the best for the future.”
Rokstone Taps Howden’s Winsley as Capacity Mgr., Broker Relationship Dir.
Rokstone, the London-based international speciality re/Insurance MGA that is part of the Aventum Group, has announced the appointment of Rob Winsley as capacity manager and broker relationship director.
Winsley joins from Howden, where he spent just over 10 years developing his career from junior broker to director. He has an incredible reputation in the market for building strong strategic partnerships with both carriers and brokers; successfully producing, managing and placing large Lloyd’s and London market portfolios, Rokstone said. Winsley will join the team following completion of his notice period.
In this newly created role, Winsley will have oversight of distribution for Rokstone. He’ll work across all lines, exploring new opportunities for mutual growth, as well as expanding into new lines and developing more of the multi-year capacity deals the Rokstone name has become synonymous with. He will also work in partnership with brokers to ensure they can always rely on Rokstone to place their risks efficiently, profitably, and with an enduring focus on service and driving better outcomes.
“We’ve now reached the size that Rokstone requires dedicated resource of this type across all lines and the territories we operate in globally and fully expect in time to grow the function with additional support in the UK and the US,” commented James Potter, chairman at Rokstone.
“Coinciding with the recent management changes at Rokstone we recognised the need for additional and dedicated resource to help manage and develop our key partnerships – ensuring we always remain ahead of the curve on service,” according to Ian Anson, CEO of Rokstone.
With offices in the UK, Europe, USA, Asia, Africa and the Middle East, Rokstone currently underwrites US$1.1 billion of GWP in several specialty lines including property, power generation, marine, aviation, cedent led facultative, agriculture, construction & engineering, accident & health, professional indemnity, and directors & officers.

Topics
Agencies
AXA XL
