This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Arch Insurance International and Markel.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Arch Insurance Int’l Promotes Senior Leaders in Casualty Team
Arch Insurance International announced three senior promotions within its casualty division, effective immediately.
Robin Hamilton has been promoted to head of Energy and Marine Liability. In this new role, he is responsible for combining the capabilities of the energy liability and marine liability teams to deliver more comprehensive solutions in the space. Hamilton reports to James Mecham, head of Casualty.
Most recently Hamilton was head of Energy Liability and prior to joining Arch in 2018 was a partner at JLT Specialty.
Tony Flatman, head of Marine Liability, will continue to oversee the day-to-day underwriting and portfolio management for marine liability.
Rory Thompson also has been named head of London Market Wholesale and General Liability while Marie-Claire Bessada has been appointed head of Retail and General Liability. In these roles, they are responsible for all underwriting and portfolio management activities across these sectors as Arch looks to further strengthen its market position. They both report to Mecham.
Both Thompson and Bessada were previously general liability portfolio managers. Thompson began his underwriting career at Arch in 2014, while Bessada joined the company in 2019, having previously been deputy class underwriter for general liability at Chaucer.
“These promotions form part of our continued growth strategy for the Casualty division and are very well deserved. Robin, Rory and Marie-Claire have all demonstrated exceptional leadership skills, deep sector expertise and a clear commitment to broker service,” commented Mecham. “This new team structure supports a more focused approach as we aim to continue increasing both our scale and relevance to our brokers and mutual clients.”
Markel Taps Chubb’s Jordan as Casualty Claims Manager in Australia
Markel, the insurance operations within Markel Group Inc., announced the appointment of Scott Jordan as claims manager, Casualty – Australia.
Jordan joins Markel after more than 12 years at Chubb, where he was most recently team leader of casualty claims. He has more than 20 years of experience in the insurance claims industry in the UK and Australia, where he has managed claims across all lines of business at companies including RBS Insurance, Marsh McLennan, and NFU Mutual.
Jordan is an industry leader in the casualty space, with deep experience managing complex and high value claims and proven strength managing a team of specialist claims handlers, the company said. At Markel, he will continue to focus on providing exceptional customer service while achieving the best claims outcomes for Markel’s clients and stakeholders.
He is be based in Sydney and reports to Lisa Mitchell, Markel’s head of claims in Australia.

Topics
Claims
Liability
Leadership
Casualty
Australia
Chubb
