The Clear Group, the London-based independent insurance broker, announced it has acquired Vision Insurance Services Ltd., based in Bagshot, Surrey, UK.
Financial details of the transaction were not disclosed.
This latest acquisition strengthens Clear’s presence in the south east of England as it continues to invest in regional brokers of all sizes.
Established in 2010, Vision Insurance Services Ltd. is a highly reputable broker serving clients across the south east of England. The business controls £10 million GWP and provides insurance solutions for a diverse portfolio of clients ranging from sole traders and SMEs through to large corporates. Vision has also completed a number of broker acquisitions since its inception, which have supported its growth and added to its client proposition.
Vision’s founders, David and Claire MacKinnon, along with their team of 17 employees are joining the Clear Group and will play a pivotal role in continuing to drive Clear’s growth across the region.
“We have been talking to David and Claire for some time, and it was clear from the outset that they had ambitious growth plans for their business through organic growth and acquisitions,” commented Clear Group CEO, Mike Edgeley, in a statement.
“We were both certain their business would be a great fit with ours at some point in the future. We are thrilled they have decided the timing is right for them to join forces with Clear,” Edgeley said.
“Investing in, and supporting regional brokers, is an integral part of our strategy to build a sustainable and long-term business. David, Claire and the Vision team run a quality business, driven by a very capable team through strong organic and inorganic growth, and will be a brilliant addition to our fast-growing business. Their culture mirrors ours, and, therefore, I’m sure they will thrive from being part of the Clear family.”
“Our business attracted significant interest from potential buyers so it was vitally important we considered carefully what was best for Vision, our people and clients,” according to David MacKinnon, co-founder of Vision Insurance Services Ltd. “Clear’s exciting growth strategy, its commitment to investing in its people and its unique culture made it the standout proposition.”
Source: Clear Group

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
