The Jensten Group has acquired UK broker Ravenhall Risk Solutions for an undisclosed sum. The deal, which is subject to approval by the FCA, bolsters Jensten’s regional presence in Yorkshire and is the Group’s latest step in its “buy and build” strategy.
Leeds, England-based Ravenhall focuses on servicing commercial and personal clients in the region. Additionally, the business has developed solutions for traditionally harder to place risks, including unmanned aerial vehicle operators and the equestrian industry. Ravenhall handles £10 million GWP, bringing the total GWP the Jensten Group controls to approaching £350 million.
Director Neil Grimshaw founded Ravenhall in 2006 and will remain with the business, leading further growth as part of the London-based Jensten Group.
The group acquired Yorkshire-based broker, Packetts, in 2021, and together the businesses will form the Jensten regional business, with both brands and office locations being retained. Grimshaw will work closely with Packetts’ managing director, Marshall Sugden, to build Jensten’s presence in the region.
“We are delighted to welcome Ravenhall to the Jensten family. Neil and the team share our core values and culture, providing an exceptional broking service and putting clients first – making them an ideal fit for the Jensten Group,” commented Alistair Hardie, CEO of Jensten Group.
“After deciding it was time for the business to enter its next phase, Jensten quickly became the obvious choice when looking for a buyer. Their focus on our people and clients from the beginning and their track record of buying brokers in the right way gave us the confidence we were making the right decision,” said Neil Grimshaw, Ravenhall director.
Source: Jensten Group

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
