This edition of International People Moves details appointments at the brokers BMS and Willis Towers Watson (WTW).
A summary of these new hires follows here.
BMS Promotes Gormley to UK CEO
BMS, the London-based independent specialist re/insurance broker, announced that Ian Gormley has been appointed UK CEO, effective immediately.
Gormley will report to Nick Cook, chief executive of BMS Group. In that role he will be responsible for the continued growth and expansion of the company’s capabilities in London and Bermuda across all specialty lines both insurance and reinsurance
Since joining BMS as managing director of global risks in 2012, Gormley has led BMS’ specialty business to become one of the highest regarded and most respected platforms in London, doubling the platform into a multi-faceted global business with revenues of more than £100 million, BMS said.
He has also built out BMS’ energy presence, developed a best-in-class property team, advanced the financial products division, and established a global risks team in Bermuda for property/liability and specialty reinsurance. Prior to BMS, Gormley worked for seven years at Glencairn and has a background both in underwriting and broking.
BMS plans to more than double the scale of its “specialty business through selective growth with partners where we can bring in new capability or enrich current expertise,” commented Gormley. “BMS is a destination for talent and has a very inclusive culture in which we give our colleagues or teams the support they need to succeed. I look forward to bringing my passion for BMS’s people-led culture and my sector expertise to deliver the strongest possible outcomes for clients around the world.”
“I’m delighted that [Gormley] has taken on the role of UK CEO of BMS which allows me more time to focus on global strategic growth across our whole business,” said Cook.
WTW Names Schepers Head of Insurance Consulting and Technology as Underwood Retires
WTW has appointed Frank Schepers to lead its Insurance Consulting & Technology (ICT) business. Based in Germany, Schepers will replace Alice Underwood who is retiring this year, and will join WTW’s Risk & Broking segment leadership team. Schepers will take up his new role in the coming weeks, following a handover period with Underwood.
Schepers has been with WTW, and its predecessor companies, since 1994 when he joined as a consultant. He has held several senior leadership roles within ICT in that time, including Risk Consulting & Software leader for Germany and then Northern and Central Europe. He was appointed Head of ICT for the EMEA region between 2015 and 2018 before taking on a new role leading major, strategic projects for some of WTW’s most significant clients.
Alice Underwood joined the firm 16 years ago and has been Head of ICT since 2017, leading the business through a period of significant success and growth.
“We are delighted to have appointed Frank to lead our ICT business globally, following a thorough internal and external search for Alice’s successor. Frank has been instrumental in expanding ICT’s services and embedding the important links between the business’ consulting services and technology solutions that have made it such a powerful force in the market,” commented Adam Garrard, head of Risk & Broking, WTW.

Topics
Tech
Willis Towers Watson
