This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance (Europe) and Gallagher Re.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Mitsui Sumitomo (Europe) Appoints Rodden as Interim CEO, Rebrands as MSIG UK
Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co. (Europe) Ltd. (MSI EU), the UK subsidiary of Japanese insurer Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance (MSI), has appointed Martyn Rodden as interim chief executive officer, effective immediately.
He succeeds Robin Adam who has left the company to pursue other opportunities. The appointment is subject to regulatory approval.
In the same announcement, MSI EU confirmed it is changing its trading name to MSIG UK. This change ensures alignment with many of the other MSI companies in the global carrier’s international network and comes after MSI recently celebrated its centenary in the UK insurance sector, the company said.
Rodden, previously director of Strategy & Transformation at sister company MS Amlin Underwriting Ltd. (MS AUL), will report to Hironori Morimoto, MSI’s managing executive officer in the UK, .
Rodden brings more than two decades of specialty London market experience to the role, including over ten years in executive leadership. As a member of the Executive Committee at MS AUL, he played a vital role in developing and implementing a change in strategy that has seen the firm’s fortunes reverse over recent years. This included leading the delivery of the successful Reinsurance To Close deal in 2023, one of the largest deals of its type in Lloyd’s history.
Prior to his new role at MSI EU, Rodden spent eight years at MS Amlin, in increasingly senior roles. With a career spanning many significant London Market brands, he was previously Chief Risk Officer at Faraday Underwriting, as well as Head of Risk at Chaucer’s syndicate business.
“I am delighted to announce Martyn’s appointment as Interim CEO of the newly rebranded MSIG UK. Martyn has shown fantastic commitment and leadership at MS Amlin, to help return the business to profitability and become a £2bn syndicate, once again,” commented Morimoto.
“Martyn’s appointment is part of a new phase for MSI in the UK, reshaping a business that has predominantly focused on supporting Japanese clients, as part of MSI’s ambitious international growth plans. The MSI network of companies provides Martyn and the team with significant opportunities to grow the business, including working with sister firms such as MS Amlin, to help develop and deliver new solutions for clients, as well as building our existing UK portfolio.”
Gallagher Re Promotes Dowlen to Managing Director EMEA
Hamish Dowlen has been appointed managing director of Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) at Gallagher Re, effective June 1, 2024.
At the same time, Ditte Deschars will become chairperson role for EMEA. This will be in addition to her leadership of the Nordic region.
For the past five years, Dowlen has been leading the DACH business (in Germany, Austria, and Switzerland), recently adding CEE & Holland to his management responsibilities.
“Not only is he an exceptional leader and people manager, he also brings deep experience as a successful producer with a tremendous work ethic,” said outgoing CEO, International, Tony Melia. “Ditte is a passionate regional leader, senior Client Advocate and brings a wealth of experience with her work on the carrier management side,” he added. “I wish them both every success in their new roles.”
These appointments come on the heels of Gallagher Re’s recent announcement that Dirk Spenner has been appointed to the role of CEO, International, at Gallagher Re, taking over from Tony Melia, who is retiring after a career of over 40 years. Spenner’s new role is effective June 1, 2024.

Topics
Talent
Europe
A.J. Gallagher
Human Resources
