Mosaic Insurance has opened an office in Singapore and hired two specialty underwriters to build its transactional liability business across the Asia-Pacific region.
Benn Wilson will serve as regional CEO, and head of Asia for Mosaic’s transactional liability division. Joining him is Edwin Chau, manager, Transactional Liability, who will also focus on developing the company’s M&A insurance business across the region.
“Asia has always been part of our strategic vision for Mosaic, so we’re pleased to be open for business in this vital market,” said Mosaic’s Underwriting Director David White. “Our Singapore office, under Benn’s leadership, enhances the global underwriting access we have built to date and our Lloyd’s platform allows us to leverage relevant licenses and respected ratings to speed business growth.”
Underwriting capacity for Mosaic’s Singapore platform is provided by the company’s Lloyd’s Syndicate 1609, managed by Asta Managing Agency. Asta’s service company, recently launched on the Lloyd’s Asia platform in Singapore, supports Mosaic with underwriting oversight and regulatory compliance services.
Wilson has lived and worked for more than 15 years in Asia, specializing in the M&A insurance sector. Before joining the industry in 2015, he was a corporate and private M&A solicitor for Ashurst LLP and in-house counsel for telecoms company Ooredoo.
Chau previously spent three years at AIG, where he was responsible for underwriting transactional liability insurance in the region. Prior, he was on the broking side, as a director at Aon’s transaction risks team for more than six years.
Lloyd’s Third-Party Managing-Agent Asta Opens Service Company in Singapore
“I am delighted to have both Mosaic and Asta join the Lloyd’s Asia platform in Singapore,” said Mark Dyson, interim country manager, Singapore and interim CEO, Lloyd’s Asia. “We have seen strong top-line and profitable growth on the platform in the previous two years and increasing the number of Lloyd’s syndicates further strengthens our underwriting capabilities and product offerings.”
The new office, located in Singapore’s central business district on Battery Road, marks Mosaic’s eighth since the company launched on Feb. 4, 2021. With a current total of more than 130 employees, it also has underwriting hubs located in Bermuda, London, New York, Chicago, Toronto, Frankfurt, and Dubai. The specialty insurer focuses on seven lines of business: transactional liability, cyber, financial institutions, professional liability, political violence, political risk, and environmental liability.
Source: Mosaic Insurance

Topics
Excess Surplus
Liability
Talent
Underwriting
