Aston Lark, the London-based broker, announced UKGlobal Broking Group as its 50th acquisition since launching in 2018, less than two weeks after officially becoming part of the Howden Broking Group.
Manchester, England-based UKGlobal arranges insurance for a broad range of commercial sectors, including via a number of specialist schemes and association partnerships, and also private clients. It is a national business, supporting clients from a network of 10 regional offices, and in addition have extensive international capability.
UKGlobal’s Healthcare division offers private medical insurance solutions to businesses to protect their employees, and UKGlobal Group Risk offers group risk insurances and business protection insurance.
The management and team members will all remain with the business, and the UKGlobal brand will also remain for the foreseeable future as the company continues its impressive growth trajectory, further bolstered by the scale and resources of Aston Lark and the wider Howden group.
“I’ve known Nic, Matt, Phil and of course Philip Hodson for many years. They are first class insurance brokers and have a true client-first ethos. They have bult an outstanding business and we now have an opportunity to partner together to more than double the business again over the coming few years,” commented Peter Blanc, Aston Lark Group CEO.
“We have enjoyed fast growth in the last five years and when Peter approached us, it became apparent that a link-up would accelerate our plans and enable us to offer even more to our clients and team,” said Matthew Bray, group CEO of UKGlobal.
“Finding the right cultural match has been imperative and in Aston Lark we have found an organisation that shares the same fundamental values that underpin our business and the way we care for our people, clients and insurer partners,” he added.
Source: Aston Lark

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
