This edition of International People Moves details appointments at insurance broker Miller, Aon Reinsurance Solutions in Italy, and AXA XL.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Miller Expands Into Media & Entertainment With Bramwell Hire
Miller, the London-based independent specialist re/insurance broker, announced the appointment of Susana Bramwell to lead Miller’s expansion into Media, TV and Film. Bramwell will join Miller later this year and become part of a market leading Sports & Entertainment business, which sits within Special Risks.
A sector expert with a well-established track record, Bramwell joins with over 30 years’ experience in the Media and Entertainment business. She joins from Marsh where she has worked for seven years as head of Media & Entertainment, leading its London-based team. Prior to this, Bramwell co-founded O’Neill and Bramwell, an insurance broker specializing in the advertising, production and event industries, which she co-managed for over 10 years before continuing on as director of Media & Entertainment upon the company’s sale to Oval Insurance. She started her career at Northwood O’Neil.
The last 12 months have seen Miller invest significantly in the expansion of its leading Sports & Entertainment proposition, including the recent acquisition of Henner Sports.
Aon Reinsurance Solutions Names Carpenter’s Toffanello Head of Italy
Aon Reinsurance Solutions, the reinsurance unit of Aon plc, has named Pietro Toffanello as head of Italy. Toffanello joined the firm in May 2022 as chairman of the board of Aon Reinsurance Italy.
Effective in the second half of 2022, and subject to regulatory authority approvals, Toffanello will replace the current long-standing Italy chief executive officer for Reinsurance Solutions, Gianluca Venturini, who will transition to the role of Reinsurance Solutions’ Italy chairman.
Based in Milan and reporting to Reinsurance Solutions’ EMEA co-CEOs, Tomas Novotny and Alfonso Valera, Toffanello will be responsible for Aon’s three offices in the country.
Joining Aon from reinsurance broker Guy Carpenter, where he was the CEO for Japan, Toffanello has also held senior positions within the EMEA and APAC operations of reinsurer Gen Re, and served as CEO of Faraday Syndicate at Lloyd’s of London.
SiriusPoint’s Sawyer Rejoins AXA XL as London Head of U.S. Casualty Re
Ian Sawyer has rejoined AXA XL as it’s London head of U.S. Casualty, Reinsurance.
In his new role, Sawyer, who is based in London, will be responsible for leading AXA XL’s Global Markets U.S. Casualty team in the UK, driving its strategic, profitable development.
Sawyer is a seasoned reinsurance executive with 35 years of industry experience across broking, underwriting and claims handling and a proven track record in the U.S. casualty space.
“We’re delighted to welcome Ian back to the business. He brings with him a wealth of knowledge and experience built over a long career in long-tail reinsurance,” commented Marcus Gonzales, head of London Reinsurance. “Ian’s experience and market profile will help us to continue to serve our clients and London brokers while enhancing our reinsurance business.”
Sawyer began his career in U.S. casualty claims at BMS in 1987, before moving on to the underwriting side at the Odyssey Re Group in 1991 underwriting U.S. casualty treaty business, where he remained for 10 years.
In 2001, he joined R K Carvill & Co., before joining XL Catlin as head of U.S. casualty treaty, London, in 2006. Sawyer remained in this role until 2018, when he left to join SiriusPoint where he became global head of Casualty, before returning to AXA XL to take on his current role.

Topics
USA
Aon
Casualty
AXA XL
