This edition of International People Moves details appointments at re/insurance brokers BMS and Gallagher.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
BMS Launches Global Healthcare Liability Unit, Led by Wendin From Carpenter
BMS, the London-based independent specialist insurance and reinsurance broker, announced the launch of a new global healthcare liability division with Rob Wendin as managing director.
BMS said the new division will provide solutions and guidance to healthcare providers and their insurers and access to BMS’ range of insurance, reinsurance and risk management services and products.
Wendin joined BMS in December 2023 and is based in London. Six additional team members have been hired, with more to follow, “making the team the largest and most experienced medical malpractice team in the London market,” BMS said in a statement.
Wendin, who reports to Andrew Wheeler, president and CEO at BMS Re, has experience across insurance, reinsurance, and healthcare during a career that spans more than 40 years.
Most recently managing director of healthcare at Guy Carpenter and before that a senior partner at JLT’s Healthcare Risk Partners and managing director at Marsh’s EMEA Healthcare Practice, Wendin is a respected veteran on healthcare liability and risk management issues and has worked in senior positions across the globe. He also established and led Allied World’s successful European Healthcare underwriting platform.
The division will focus on working with BMS’ clients to develop and provide access to new market capacity, innovative solutions and risk management advice, while providing advice and transactional services such as technical coverage issues for medical malpractice and associated liabilities.
Wendin and his team will work with BMS Re’s long-established treaty healthcare liability team – led by Clare Stenson.
Gallagher Re Taps Hiscox’s Marling as UK Chief Operating Officer
Louise Marling will join global reinsurance broker Gallagher Re, headquartered in London, as UK chief operating officer, subject to the necessary regulatory approvals. She takes over from Gina Butterworth, who steps into the role of global transformation director.
Marling most recently served as chief operating officer at Hiscox UK, where she played a pivotal role in establishing the integrated operations infrastructure for the UK business. Before Hiscox, Marling served as the chief operating officer for William Russell Ltd., where she was responsible for strategy development, business planning, and managing strategic partnerships for IT and change, both in the UK and overseas.
She has specific expertise in transforming change and IT functions, implementing digital strategies, and overseeing the design and implementation of new operational capability
Marling will report directly to UK CEO Ian Kerton.

Topics
Liability
New Markets
A.J. Gallagher
