This edition of International People Moves details appointments at HDI Global and Amwins Global Risks.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
HDI Global Promotes Schulte as Global Head of Marine
HDI Global has promoted Dr. Carsten Schulte as the new global head of Marine, effective Jan. 1, 2025. He will be succeeded by Alexander Schlei in his previous position as head of Technical & Strategic Services.
Schulte and Schlei will report directly to Dr. Dirk Höring, member of the Executive Board of HDI Global with responsibility for property, energy, engineering, marine and HDI Risk Consulting.
Schulte has built up the new Technical & Strategic Services division over the past two years. Along with his teams, Schulte has further developed the excellence of the underwriting areas and created a new hub for bundling expertise and faster exchange across all areas. Schulte was previously instrumental in developing HDI Global’s portfolio steering approach.
Schlei has more than 20 years of experience in corporate insurance. Most recently he was responsible for the management of the NatCat division within Technical & Strategic Services. During this time, Schlei significantly advanced HDI Global’s ability to manage natural hazard risks.
“I am delighted to welcome Alexander to my management team. He has shown how competently and professionally he can design and implement a board division strategy. This ability makes him the ideal choice to take over from Carsten, who has done an excellent job in building up the Technical & Strategic Services division,” commented Höring. “At the same time, I am thrilled for Carsten that he is taking over the management of the Marine division and thus embarking on a new and exciting challenge in underwriting. His experience in managing portfolios and implementing strategies will further boost the very successful performance of the Marine division.”
The Marine division is responsible for managing the worldwide underwriting in Marine at HDI Global. It offers comprehensive cargo and marine coverages for corporate and commercial clients around the globe working hand in hand with the experienced colleagues from HDI Risk Consulting and claims handling to provide the best possible cover for clients.
The Technical & Strategic Services (short tail) division supports the short tail divisions in underwriting worldwide with analyses, tools, KPIs and processes. The tasks of the associated teams include the coordination and implementation of portfolio management processes, the assessment of natural hazards including accumulation control and the development of pricing approaches, the improvement of processes and workflows in the underwriting value chain and the coordination of strategic projects.
Amwins Global Risks Hires Ewing to Lead New Transactional Risk Practice
Amwins Global Risks, the international arm of global specialty insurance broker Amwins and one of the largest independent wholesale brokers in London, announced the appointment of Gabriel Ewing as head of its new Transactional Risk practice in London.
Ewing brings extensive experience placing all aspects of transactional risk insurance, which has become invaluable to deal makers, often in an M&A context, to mitigate risk, preserve asset value and smooth warranty negotiations. His expertise includes warranty and indemnity insurance, as well stand-alone tax and contingent liability risk.
He arrives at Amwins with almost 20 years of legal and M&A experience with an emphasis on complex international transactions. Further, Ewing brings extensive emerging and frontier market experience, which will complement Amwins’ strategic goals in developing its client base into new markets.
Previous roles include director in the M&A, Transactional Risks team at Willis Towers Watson and senior vice president in the Private Equity and M&A Practice in London for Marsh McLennan, according to his LinkedIn profile.
Along with traditional transactional risk placements, Ewing will also lead in the development of other growing segments of transactional risk, including environmental and intellectual property.
“Gabriel is a strong addition to our team,” said Nate Mathis, CEO of Amwins Global Risks. “His diverse expertise will be invaluable as we continue to expand our capabilities and provide comprehensive solutions to our clients. Transactional risk liability is a highly complementary addition to our existing product suite in professional and financial lines, enabling us to deepen our client relationships.”