Inside Amsterdam’s Rijksmuseum, Rembrandt’s masterpiece The Night Watch appears to be hanging straight, as do other famous works by Vermeer and Van Gogh. While standing outside the gargantuan red-brick building, however, eagle-eyed engineers noticed the museum was sinking 15 centimeters (6 inches) to one side.
Like most buildings built before 1970 in this marshy country, the Netherlands’ national museum rests on a foundation of wooden poles — about 8,000 of them. But as dry summers caused groundwater levels to plunge, the poles were exposed and fungi began to rot the foundations. It required a team of specialist hydrogeologists to fix the problem.
While the Dutch have long feared that climate change would see their homes engulfed by rising sea levels, Europe’s record drought is showing that too little, not too much water, could spell disaster. As many as one million Dutch houses built on pile foundations face similar problems to the Rijksmuseum and are at risk of collapse.
Only a small group of engineers have the expertise to tackle the issue and it may cost as much as 100 billion euros ($100 billion) to fix all households that are sinking due to retreating groundwater, according to Peter Boelhouwer, professor of housing systems at the Delft University of Technology. With Europe in the throes of what appears to be its worst drought in at least 500 years, the problem may not be confined to the Netherlands, with wooden pile foundations also used in parts of Sweden, Germany and extensively in Italy’s Venice.
The fungi, which need oxygen to survive, “literally eat away the wooden poles, to the point they lose stability,” said Maarten Kuiper, a hydrogeologist at engineering company Dareius, which was hired to help save the Rijksmuseum. “They really are slow and silent killers.”
The insurance sector is unlikely to pay out for refitting foundations anytime soon. Without government support for such macro climate risks “we cannot take it upon ourselves as an industry,” said David Knibbe, chief executive officer of insurer NN Group NV.