Aon Adds 3 to M&A and Transaction Practice in the UK
Global broker Aon has strengthened its Mergers & Acquisitions and Transaction Solutions team in the UK with the appointments of Sam Bridges, Tanya Hickson, and Guy Ruddy.
Bridges joins Aon’s corporate M&A coverage team as director, bringing more than 20 years of experience as an investment banking professional at J. P. Morgan.
Hickson moves from Aon’s corporate team to Aon’s Manchester M&A transaction advisory risk and insurance team, working with Antoinette Swift on diligence and private equity backed portfolio business.
Ruddy joins the transaction team, based outside of London, as director, from Squire Patton Boggs in Leeds, having spent more than four years as a corporate M&A lawyer with a private equity focus.
AXA XL Appoints Shing to Head of International Casualty
AXA XL’s insurance business has promoted Olivia Shing to head of international casualty for UK and Lloyd’s.
In her new role, Shing will be responsible for leading the international casualty team in the UK, while developing the regional underwriting strategy. She will also work with internal stakeholders and key brokers to support the unit’s underwriting and marketing strategies.
Shing has 20 years’ experience as a senior leader across client servicing, distribution and operational roles in the UK and Asia. Most recently, she was head of underwriting management, UK and Lloyd’s, at AXA XL, following successive promotions since joining in 2014.
UIB Boosts Marine Division With Waller
Insurance broker UIB announced the appointment of David Waller as divisional director within its marine division.
Waller brings 15 years of experience as a marine insurance broker working with complex and difficult risks in cargo and stock throughput from a global portfolio. Prior to joining UIB, he spent four years with Roanoke International Brokers Limited (RIBL) as executive director, where he led its cargo and stock throughput business. Before RIBL, Waller was the divisional director of Arthur J. Gallagher (UK) Limited, focusing on cargo and stock throughput risks.
Based in UIB’s offices in London, Waller reports to Andrew Little, managing director and head of marine.






Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Aon
Casualty
AXA XL
