This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Aon and Zurich Insurance.
Aon Announces New Lineup for UK Commercial Risk Team
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Insurance broker Aon plc has announced a new lineup for its UK Commercial Risk leadership team with two appointments.
James Baum (previously head of UK Commercial Risk and Aon’s Global Broking Centre) is taking a new role as head of Wholesale and Specialty Broking. In this role he will continue to lead the Global Broking Centre in London and be responsible for delivering cohesive broking strategies across all the international wholesale markets.
Jane Kielty is becoming the head of Commercial Risk UK, focused on bringing together all delivery parts of Commercial Risk in the UK to further improve service and capability for clients across the country. Kielty will retain her UK Chief Commercial Officer responsibilities until a successor is appointed; this process is now underway.
Both appointments are subject to approval from the Financial Conduct Authority.
In their new roles, Baum and Kielty will work closely together to build on existing momentum and alignment across both retail and wholesale broking, to improve delivery of solutions and capability for clients, and to optimize results for them when accessing the London, specialty and UK markets.
Both Baum and Kielty remain members of Aon’s UK Leadership Team, focused on driving growth and delivering solutions for clients through its Aon United strategy.
Zurich Appoints Seach as Group CUO, Succeeding Robinson
Zurich Insurance Group has appointed Penny Seach, currently chief underwriting officer EMEA, to the role of group chief underwriting officer, effective Jan. 1, 2023.
Seach will report to Sierra Signorelli, CEO Commercial Insurance. Hayley Robinson, who has held this role since June 2021, has decided to step down at the end of the year due to family health reasons.
Seach has more than 25 years of insurance experience with various multinational insurance companies. She joined Zurich in 2017 and has a strong track record of leading large diverse teams across geographies and disciplines.
Robinson will continue in her role through the end of the year, working alongside Seach to ensure a seamless transition.
“Penny is a very experienced and capable successor for this important role, which is also a testament to our strong internal talent pool,” said Signorelli. “She has successfully led the EMEA underwriting business, strengthened the team and further advanced alignment with the Group’s strategy and governance. I am very confident that Penny will continue to successfully drive underwriting performance and ensure consistency across markets.”
Signorelli thanked Robinson for her contribution to Zurich and the underwriting businesses since she joined the group in 2018. “She has been a tremendous asset to the Commercial Insurance team and a highly valued and respected colleague. I was saddened to hear of Hayley’s personal circumstances and her decision to step down from her role. I wish her and her family the very best for the future,” Signorelli added.

Topics
Commercial Lines
Business Insurance
New Markets
Aon
