This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Aon plc, Markel and Arch Capital’s Global Mortgage Group.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Aon Promotes Solano, Diaz as Brazil and Peru Reinsurance Leaders
Insurance broker Aon plc announced that it has named Isabel Blazquez Solano as CEO of Brazil, and Daniela Diaz as head of Peru, within its Reinsurance Solutions business.
Solano, who has extensive industry experience across EMEA and Latin America, joined Aon in October 2022 from Brazilian reinsurer IRB(Re), where she was chief underwriting officer. Previously, she held positions within the Europe & CEE operations of reinsurer MAPFRE Re. Based in Rio De Janeiro and reporting to Reinsurance Solutions’ Latin America CEO Paula Ferreira, Solano will be responsible for Aon’s two Brazil offices – in Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro.
Meanwhile, Diaz will lead Reinsurance Solutions in the Peru market as part of the Andean subregion. She joined Aon nine years ago and has more than 15 years of insurance industry experience. In her new role, she will continue to drive Aon’s position as an agnostic capital adviser, encouraging the utilization and growth both of facultative and treaty business, while boosting the firm’s regional strategy.
Markel Names Styles as Head of Cargo
Markel, the insurance operations within Markel Group Inc., has appointed Brook Styles as head of cargo, with immediate effect. Styles takes on this position from Richard Burnett who will transition to a strategic role as head of cargo underwriting.
In his new post, Styles will play an important part in identifying areas to spearhead further growth across Markel’s cargo portfolio, in addition to supporting underwriters in the cargo team with their professional development. He will also be responsible for driving Markel’s Broking Partner Relationship program, by establishing and maintaining new and existing broker relationships, while continuing to deliver an open, honest, and consistent underwriting service to customers.
Styles will be based at Markel’s London office, reporting to Dan McCarthy, director of marine at Markel International.
Styles joined Markel in 2006 during which time he has acquired valuable underwriting experience and expertise from the wholesale teams, having worked across various classes of business including fine art, specie, and terrorism. Styles departed from Markel in 2014 to join Pioneer where he managed and led the cargo and terrorism portfolio for five years, before returning to Markel in a senior underwriter capacity to take the cargo portfolio forward.
Arch’s Global Mortgage Group Promotes Fearon as CEO, Int’l Mortgage
Arch Capital Group Ltd. announced Seamus Fearon has been promoted to CEO, International Mortgage for the Global Mortgage Group. In this role, Fearon will have responsibility for managing Arch’s Australian and European mortgage operations as well as its Government Sponsored Enterprise (GSE) Credit Risk Transfer (CRT) and Services business.
Fearon was most recently executive vice president, CRT and European Markets for Arch’s Global Mortgage Group where he oversaw the GSE CRT business and grew the organization’s European Significant Risk Transfer business. In his new role, Fearon will be charged with further diversifying the platform of Arch’s Global Mortgage Group — a specialist in aggregating, managing and syndicating mortgage credit risk.
Fearon joined Arch in 2012 and is a Fellow of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Actuarial and Financial Mathematics from Dublin City University.
Beau Franklin, who previously served as the CEO of Arch’s International Mortgage Group, will begin a new executive role at Arch MI’s parent company, Arch Capital Group Ltd.
“Diversifying our mortgage portfolio has been a key strategy for the Global Mortgage Group over the last several years, and Seamus has played a critical role in growing our international business,” said David Gansberg, CEO of Arch’s Global Mortgage Group. “Today, nearly 40% of our underwriting profit comes from non-U.S. operations — compared to just over 10% in 2017. International business represents a significant opportunity for the Mortgage Group at Arch, and I believe Seamus’ demonstrated leadership, combined with his analytical and business acumen, can help us achieve our goals in those markets.”
Gansberg thanked Franklin for his contributions to the company over the past decade. “Under Beau’s leadership, the International Mortgage group had many accomplishments including a first-of-its-kind capital relief transaction in Europe that helped establish our capabilities in that market. Beau was also instrumental in getting our Australian operation, Arch LMI, approved as a lenders mortgage insurer by the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority and helping grow our Australian business through the acquisition of Westpac Lenders Mortgage Insurance Limited. I know Beau will apply his skills to the benefit of the entire enterprise in his new role.”
About Arch Global Mortgage Group
The Arch Global Mortgage Group, part of Arch Capital Group Ltd., is focused on providing risk management, risk financing and capital optimizing insurance and reinsurance products to the housing sector worldwide.

Topics
Reinsurance
Leadership
Trucking
Aon
