Verlingue has acquired a majority stake in the insurance broker INSER, in line with its Verlingue 2024 strategic plan to create a major European, family-owned, independent insurance broker.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed. The INSER’s longstanding shareholder, ISA, remains a minority shareholder.
Founded in 1979 in Trento, INSER is one of the leading independent players in the Italian insurance brokerage market, focusing on corporate risks and public procurement. The broker, which has expanded through targeted organic growth and a strategic acquisitions program, employs nearly 160 staff in eight offices in northern Italy (Trento, Parma, Brescia, Milan, Bergamo, Vicenza, Udine) and central Italy (Rieti).
With Italy, Verlingue is entering an important strategic market by making its seventh acquisition outside France in seven years, following on from its acquisitions in Switzerland (2016, 2017 and 2019), the UK (2018) and Portugal (2020, 2022).
With this new acquisition, the Verlingue’s parent, Adelaïde Group, continues to execute its 2024 strategic plan with the ambition of becoming a major European, family-owned, independent insurance broker, serving increasingly international customers. Verlingue’s international turnover now accounts for 35% of its total revenues.
Verlingue said its ambition in Italy is to become a benchmark broker in the market for SMEs, mid-caps, large companies and public authorities.
“Our international success is based on strong local management teams in each country. With the acquisition of Inser, we are bringing on board a team of committed experts who will play a full part in our goal to become a major player in Europe,” commented Anne-Jacques de Dinechin, chief executive officer of Verlingue.
“We are delighted with this acquisition. We have found a solid and credible international partner in the family-owned Verlingue group, which will now contribute to a new phase in the development of INSER, a long-standing and important subsidiary of ISA, which we have supported in its growth and in which we will continue to be present,” according to Giorgio Franceschi, deputy chairman of ISA.
“The partnership between Verlingue and ISA offers a great opportunity to create value for customers, employees and the region as a whole,” Franceschi added.
“Verlingue’s European project is exciting, and Italy is a strategic country. This partnership will enable us to strengthen our development trajectory, both through organic growth and targeted acquisitions, in order to consolidate our positioning and offer a high-quality service to our customers,” said Pierpaolo Ruggeri, CEO of INSER Spa.
Source: Verlingue

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
Europe
