Mosaic Insurance has launched a combined environmental product that merges primary commercial general liability with a suite of added pollution and professional coverages.
The company’s new Site Pollution & General Liability (SGL) form provides primary and excess (supported and unsupported) capabilities with $25 million in excess capacity and is available to retail and wholesale brokers.
The combined offering includes general liability, environmental liability and professional liability hazards in a single, worldwide coverage form that can be customized to fit an insured’s needs and risk appetite.
SGL coverage aims to bridge gaps commonly found in traditional insurance placements, providing robust protection for a diverse range of risks across multiple sectors—including manufacturing, processing, product distribution and environmental consulting. The SGL form competes head-on with standard casualty placements and provides far more comprehensive coverage, while remaining financially competitive. Built-in enhancements include worldwide coverage for products, pollution incidents arising out of an insured’s work and products, as well as non-owned locations and transportation.
“This builds towards our continuing goal to be the top, most trusted environmental carrier,” said Jim Finnamore, global head of Environmental Liability at Mosaic.
“These solutions comprehensively cover premises, operational, product, pollution and professional exposures,” noted Karen Reilly, Mosaic’s head of US, Environmental Liability.
Mosaic has some 20 environmental specialists in London and across the US. Its suite of environmental policies covers a range of industries, including fixed-site, construction, and manufacturing sectors.
The Bermuda-based company underwrites on behalf of close to 30 insurers worldwide, led by its Lloyd’s Syndicate 1609. As well as environmental liability, Mosaic’s specialty lines include political violence, transactional liability, cyber, political risk, financial institutions, and professional liability.

Topics
Liability
New Markets
Pollution
