Ariel Green, a division of Ariel Re, has expanded Lloyd’s first ever Technology Performance Insurance (TPI) Consortium.
First launched in 2023, Ariel Green has renewed the consortium and grown the number of markets participating and capacity available, to protect clean energy technologies and projects.
With the consortium’s backing, Ariel Green now offers TPI policies with up to $150 million in aggregate per risk, and more in special circumstances, allowing the major cleantech projects and stakeholders to benefit from meaningful risk transfer. The increased scale will allow the clean energy sector to access more capital and accelerate deployment of innovative technologies essential to achieving net zero.
“We are proud to be the technology performance insurer at Lloyd’s, leading the convergence of the green energy sector and the insurance industry,” said Jan Napiorkowski, Ariel Green managing director.
“The demand for participation in the consortium reflects the increasing demand for clean energy TPI as well as insurers’ commitment to support this fast-growing energy sector, while adding new and uncorrelated classes of business,” he added.
“Lloyd’s offers a unique global platform to host this renewable consortium thanks to our global licenses and position as the world’s leading specialist insurance market,” commented Rachel Turk, Lloyd’s chief underwriting officer. “We are delighted that major traditional insurance players view Lloyd’s and our consortia as a great platform to identify and support specialty insurance offerings in this segment.”
Ariel Green, a division of the re/insurer and Lloyd’s underwriter Ariel Re, provides technology performance insurance (TPI) for the clean energy industry, deploying capital through customized long-term and non-cancellable risk management solutions.
Related:

Topics
InsurTech
Excess Surplus
Tech
Lloyd's
