Jensten, the London-based independent insurance broking group, announced it has acquired independent community broker Melville Burbage.
The deal, which is subject to regulatory approval, brings a dedicated team of 15 to Jensten, along with two additional offices and will contribute £6 million ($7.6 million) in gross written premiums to the business.
Financial details of the transaction were not disclosed.
Well known in the local area for delivering high-quality commercial broking solutions, Melville Burbage is a trusted partner for over 5,000 businesses and individuals. The company serves a diverse range of sectors, including construction, non-profit, and professional services. Additionally, the business has expertise in the engineering and printing sectors, new areas of specialism for Jensten which join an expanding cohort of specialist centres of excellence.
This acquisition marks Jensten’s continued strategic regional expansion across the UK, enhancing the business’ local presence and capability to service clients across the Home Counties (the counties in England that surround London).
Directors Kevin Stevens and Darren Young at Melville Burbage will continue to lead the business, reporting to Robin Thomson, managing director, Jensten Insurance Brokers.
“In joining the Jensten Group we embark on an exciting new chapter for Melville Burbage. It was very important to us that we joined a business that understood our growth ambitions but who would also value and be sympathetic to the lasting relationships we’ve cultivated with our clients,” commented Stevens, adding that Jensten was “an obvious choice.”
“We are pleased to be able to announce our latest acquisition of Melville Burbage. Growing our established footprint and adding new regional centres of excellence is a key element of our strategy, and one we’re making good progress on,” said Rob Organ, Jensten Retail MD.
“Melville Burbage’s main office in Newbury is very complimentary to our existing regional presence in the Thames Valley and their reputation for delivering a high-quality service to local businesses, along with their expertise within the engineering and printing communities, perfectly complements our plans. We look forward to welcoming Kevin, Darren and the team to the Jensten family,” Organ continued.
Source: Jensten

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
