Howden, the London-based insurance intermediary group, announced it has acquired Intersure Group Ltd., trading as Intersure Group, further strengthening its ability to service the Irish insurance market, as it expands its geographical footprint across the country.
Financial details of the transaction were not disclosed.
Established in 1999 by Noeleen Butterly, Intersure is an owner-managed business with its office in Drogheda, County Louth, in Ireland. As a regional insurance brokerage and risk management consultancy, Intersure provides clients with technical insurance advice across commercial, business, construction and liability lines, and personal lines including home, motor and travel, said Howden.
“I’m thrilled to welcome Noeleen and her team to Howden. This acquisition means that we are continuing on our path to become the local broker of choice across Ireland, ensuring great service for both commercial and personal lines clients,” commented Robert Kennedy, CEO, Howden Ireland.
“We are very excited to expand further into the North-East of Ireland, with our first office in Co. Louth. We are looking forward to working with Noeleen and her team to introduce Howden’s solutions across commercial insurance, personal insurance, health insurance, life and pensions and mortgages to clients in the North-East of Ireland,” Kennedy added.
“Howden’s global expertise and resources will greatly enhance our ability to provide innovative solutions tailored to our client’s needs. Under the Howden brand, we’ll continue to service our clients seamlessly. They can expect no disruption in service, just more options and better support,” said Butterly, managing director of Intersure.
Founded in 1994, Howden operates in 50 countries across Europe, Africa, Asia, the Middle East, Latin America, the US, Australia, and New Zealand, employing 16,000 people and handling $38 billion of premium on behalf of clients.
Source: Howden

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
