Apollo, the London-based independent specialist insurer and reinsurer, announced it will launch a new specialty treaty class of business within the Reinsurance Division of Syndicate 1969, on Jan. 1, 2024.
The new portfolio will focus on the niche classes of credit, mortgage and surety reinsurance, with Chris Chandriotis moving from his role as a pricing actuary to help build out this business in addition to managing the international property reinsurance book.
Apollo said this strategic development underscores its commitment to provide important reinsurance leadership in a time of increased complexity.
“We have an expert team to lead the development of our division and are excited this has enabled us to expand into new areas for our clients,” commented Paul Sandi, Apollo’s head of Reinsurance.
“Jessica Gibbons will also be joining us in November to further strengthen the team and we are well positioned to support our clients through this period of heightened uncertainty,” Sandi added.
“The Reinsurance division continues to build on the successful launch into casualty treaty in 2022,” said James Slaughter, Apollo’s group CUO. “Paul, Anthony, Chris and Jessica are now able to offer clients a range of products across Property, Casualty and Speciality to meet the increasing demand for innovative risk solutions.”
Apollo was launched in 2009 to provide clients and brokers an agile and entrepreneurial insurance partner. The Apollo name recognized the success of one of its founding investors, Neil Armstrong, who in 1969 was the first person to walk on the moon. The founders were Armstrong, Jim Hays and senior executives Nick Jones and Simon White, according to the company’s website.
Source: Apollo

Topics
Excess Surplus
New Markets
