Everest Insurance, the insurance division of Everest Re Group Ltd., announced its further expansion into the European market with the opening of two new branches in Paris, France and Düsseldorf, Germany. Plans for a third European branch opening in Madrid, Spain is also planned for later this year.
“Our international expansion is driven by an intentional focus to continue to diversify our business and grow in a robust global market with tremendous need and potential,” said Mike Karmilowicz, president & CEO, Everest Insurance.
“While clients and brokers face challenging and new emerging risks, Everest Insurance is bringing a new commitment to the European market. Backed by the full strength and capital of Everest, we are well-positioned to deliver our customer-first model to these key markets, providing clients with access to first-class industry talent and the customized risk solutions they need,” he added.
The newly established branches are led by Anne Charon, head of France, and Bernd Wiemann, head of Germany.
Everest’s Paris office will service key sectors including property, casualty, energy and construction, professional lines/indemnity, cyber, accident and health, credit and surety, and financial lines. Everest’s Düsseldorf office will service key sectors including commercial property, casualty, and financial lines of business.
The European expansion of Everest’s primary insurance operations follows its recent entrance into the Latin American and Asia Pacific markets and continues the advancement of its international expansion strategy.
The Paris branch is operated by Everest Insurance (Ireland), DAC France Branch, and the German branch is operated by Everest Insurance (Ireland) DAC, Niederlassung für Deutschland.
Source: Everest Re

Topics
Germany
