This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Gallagher Re and Swiss Re Corporate Solutions.
A summary of these two promotions follows here.
Gallagher Re announced the appointment of Ian Kerton to the role of CEO of the reinsurance broker’s UK operations, subject to regulatory approval. Kerton will replace Tom Wakefield who was named successor to James Kent as global CEO of Gallagher Re earlier this year. (Kent subsequently decided to retire instead of taking a new position in the company, which was announced in March).
Kerton has been with Gallagher Re as a partner in its UK business since 2021. Prior to joining Gallagher, he was managing director of the UK Property & Casualty team at Guy Carpenter and a director of the UK board. Kerton has held multiple roles within the reinsurance industry over the last 30 years, including executive director at HSBC Insurance Brokers for 10 years, where he headed up the Treaty broking team and was responsible for their business in the UK & Asia.
Kerton will report to Wakefield who will assume the role of global CEO at Gallagher Re with effect from June 1. While Gallagher announced in March that Kent would take on a new role, as CEO of Global Insurance Strategic Relationships, it was announced on Friday that Kent had decided to retire.
“James Kent has confirmed his plans to retire from Gallagher with effect from 1 June. While we are sorry to see him leave our firm, we respect his decision to take a well-deserved retirement following his successful career in the industry. He leaves with our thanks for all that he has achieved in his time with Gallagher and we wish him well for the future,” according to the statement from Gallagher.
“Ian is a truly accomplished broker and leader who is well-respected by clients and colleagues alike. Since joining Gallagher Re, he has shown an unwavering focus on client-advocacy, combined with strategic business acumen and strong people leadership,” commented Wakefield. “He is absolutely the best candidate for this important leadership role and the fact that we have been able to recruit from within is testament to the incredible senior talent we have within Gallagher Re.”
“Gallagher Re has undergone transformational change on a global scale since I joined the business two years ago, and I am delighted to have been chosen to lead the UK team as we build out the next phase of our growth in the region,” said Kerton.
Swiss Re Corporate Solutions Promotes Hall to Head UK, Ireland, S. Africa and EMEA Wholesale
Swiss Re Corporate Solutions appoints Adrian Hall is as head UK, Ireland, South Africa and EMEA Wholesale, succeeding Melanie Slack, who is leaving Swiss Re Corporate Solutions for retirement.
Hall is currently head Canada at Swiss Re Corporate Solutions. As of Sept. 1, 2023, he will take on his new role.
With nearly 30 years of international insurance industry experience, Hall started his career in London. He has worked in various senior leadership roles in the Middle East, Latin America and Canada. Hall joined Swiss Re Corporate Solutions in 2017 as head Canada, providing leadership across all facets of the Canadian business, including chief agent for our Canadian entity, product development, underwriting, operations, claims, customer & distribution management and marketing. Hall will relocate from Toronto to London, reporting to Nina Arquint, CEO EMEA at Swiss Re Corporate Solutions.
Hall’s team will continue to enhance Swiss Re Corporate Solutions’ services to brokers and clients, including a focus on the differentiating capabilities within the international programs business and innovative risk transfer space. In addition, his special attention will be on the continued roll-out of Risk Data and Services, a strategic initiative launched last year helping clients take back control of their risks. Hall will lead the sub-regional teams based in London, Dublin and Johannesburg.
Melanie Slack joined Swiss Re in 2001 as the Life & Health technical chief underwriter for Europe, Asia and Latin America. After holding a variety of senior management roles within Swiss Re Group, she was appointed head UK, Ireland and South Africa at Swiss Re Corporate Solutions in 2021. Following a handover period, she is planning to leave the company for retirement.
“We are immensely grateful for all the contributions that Melanie has made over the last 22 years with Swiss Re Group. I always admired her professionalism, integrity and positivity. We wish Melanie all the best for her retirement,” commented Arquint. “I’m very pleased that we were able to find her successor within our own ranks. With his strong leadership experience and outstanding industry knowledge, I’m convinced that Adrian is ideally positioned to drive Swiss Re Corporate Solutions’ continued growth in the UK, Ireland, South Africa and the EMEA Wholesale markets.”

Topics
A.J. Gallagher
Swiss Re
