This edition of International People Moves details appointments at AXA XL, Willis Towers Watson and Sedgwick.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
AXA XL Promotes 2 Regional Managers in Europe
AXA XL announced the appointments of Peter Knaus as regional manager, Northern Europe, in addition to his role as country manager, Germany and Julien Guénot as regional manager, Southern Europe, in addition to his role as country manager, France.
Bruno Laval, chief distribution officer, APAC & Europe, and Regional Manager, European Growth Markets, will be leaving AXA XL to pursue opportunities outside of AXA Group. AXA XL will appoint a chief distribution officer for APAC & Europe in due course.
These changes reflect AXA XL’s decision to organize its European insurance operations into two geographical hubs: Northern Europe (comprising Germany, Switzerland, Austria & CSEE, Nordics and Benelux) and Southern Europe (comprising France, Italy and Iberia).
Knaus has been with AXA since 1993. During his tenure, he held a number of senior underwriting and leadership roles, including head of Commercial Lines, chief underwriting officer and general manager at AXA Versicherung AG. He was appointed country manager, Germany, for AXA XL in 2019.
Guénot started his career with AXA in 2003 before joining AIG and later joining AXA Corporate Solutions in 2009 to set up the company’s operations in Asia, supporting the development of the whole Asia-Pacific region. He then moved to Italy to lead AXA Corporate Solutions’ Italian and Southern European operations before being appointed country manager, France, for AXA XL in 2018.
Xavier Veyry, chief executive officer, APAC & Europe, thanked Laval “for his dedication over his 20-year tenure with AXA XL, and for his contribution to our business in Europe and the wider business unit.”
WTW Taps Bassi for Newly Created Role in Insurance Consulting & Tech
Insurance broker WTW has appointed Pardeep Bassi in the company’s Insurance Consulting and Technology business. In the newly created role of global proposition leader in Data Science, Bassi will lead the advancement of the unit’s data science capability globally, building on WTW’s market-leading analytics and data science software, Emblem and Radar.
Bassi most recently served as chief data science officer at LV= General Insurance, where he was responsible for creating and delivering the insurer’s advanced analytics and machine learning strategy; working across all business functions to identify and implement solutions for new opportunities where machine learning can provide value to the business. Prior to LV= General Insurance, Bassi has spent time at AXA and Domestic & General, where he built and led data science teams and initiatives.
Sedgwick Names Horrocks Head of Fraud Tech & Intelligence in UK
Sedgwick, a provider of technology-enabled risk, benefits and integrated business solutions, announced the appointment of Laura Horrocks as head of fraud technology and intelligence for its UK-based investigation services division.
In this role, Horrocks will oversee the development of Sedgwick’s new counter-fraud solution from Shift Technology to provide clients with innovative fraud identification services.
A Sedgwick colleague since 2015, Horrocks brings to her new role significant experience in counter-fraud. She previously worked as a fraud assessment and intelligence manager, integrating colleagues from across three investigation services divisions into one fraud assessment and intelligence team. Previously, Horrocks served as manager of Sedgwick’s road traffic accident (RTA) insurer investigations team, investigating motor insurance fraud to help clients realise significant savings.
Shift’s machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI) technology gives Sedgwick’s fraud investigations team a tactical edge and improves accuracy in pinpointing insurance fraud early, said Sedgwick in a statement. Sedgwick is the first claims management company to partner with Shift Technology and adopt its industry-leading fraud detection solution, the company added.
Founded in 1969, Memphis-based Sedgwick now employs nearly 30,000 colleagues, located across 65 countries. Sedgwick’s majority shareholder is The Carlyle Group. Stone Point Capital LLC, Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec (CDPQ), Onex and other management investors are minority shareholders.

Topics
InsurTech
Fraud
Tech
Europe
AXA XL
Willis Towers Watson
