This edition of International People Moves details appointments at reinsurance brokers BMS Re and Guy Carpenter.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
BMS Re Names O’Brien as VP in Bermuda
BMS Re, the specialty reinsurance arm of the global broking group BMS, announced the appointment of Brendan O’Brien as vice president. Based in Bermuda, O’Brien will report to Chris McDowell, CEO of BMS Re Bermuda.
O’Brien will support BMS Re’s alternative risk transfer initiatives as well as contribute to the traditional reinsurance and retro activities across the platform. His role will encompass both property catastrophe and non-catastrophe lines, including credit reinsurance, bolstering BMS Re’s existing offering in the market.
O’Brien joins BMS Re from his latest position as an underwriter in Assured Guaranty Re’s structured finance division. Prior to this, O’Brien was at Nephila Capital Ltd. for six years. At Nephila, he amassed an impressive amount of experience on the catastrophe bond desk and was also involved in the firm’s outwards reinsurance and retro strategy. O’Brien is a CFA charterholder, registered with the Bermuda Institute.
Guy Carpenter Appoints Howden Tiger’s Warwick as Head of GC Access Asia Pacific
Guy Carpenter, the reinsurance business of Marsh McLennan, announced the appointment of Steve Warwick as head of GC Access Asia Pacific, effective immediately.
With the swiftly evolving delegated authority market in the Asia Pacific region, GC Access Asia Pacific was set up in 2021 to meet the expanding needs of the dynamic program market. The practice provides fully integrated and bespoke services in business planning, program carrier selection, capital advisory and modeling via a network of colleagues across the globe.
Warwick brings over 40 years of experience to the role. He previously held senior roles within the reinsurance industry in the region with a proven record of success, said Carpenter.
According to his LinkedIn profile, Warwick joins Carpenter from Howden Tiger where he held the role of head of Treaty, Asia Pacific. Previously in his career, he also held senior roles at RFIB Group Ltd., Nine Merchants Re, Aon Benfield, and Aon Re Australia, his profile said.