“Toxic torts,” which are lawsuits alleging damage to human health or the environment caused by specific substances, are increasingly common in the United States. They can cost defendants hundreds of millions, even billions of dollars. But such risks are no longer a US-only concern. With a recent settlement between the Belgian government and 3M Co. of St. Paul, Minn., the risk of big-money damages arising from past and present use of noxious substances has now reached Europe.
The case involves so-called “forever chemicals,” so named because of their very long persistence in the environment – including in bodies. Belgium reached a settlement with 3M in which they will pay $581 million in remediation costs, compensation, and fines as a result of its historical contamination of the ground around Zwijndrecht. That’s where, until 2002, 3M manufactured the forever chemical known as PFOS. It was found in the nearby soil in 2018, and subsequently in the bloodstreams of local residents, in very high concentrations.
For decades PFOS, properly called perfluorooctane sulfonic acid, has been widely used to make textiles and paper products resistant to both oil and water. Commercial and consumer applications range from firefighting foams to denture cleaners. Unfortunately PFOS is toxic, persists in the environment, and bioaccumulates in people and animals. PFOS is no longer manufactured in the US, but is still used in a few applications. It is imported in its pure state for a limited number of uses, as well as arriving stateside as a component of hundreds of manufactured products.
Some insurers are adopting PFAS exclusions, and many others no doubt wish they had done so years ago, since PFAS have been used since the 1940s.