The Federation of European Risk Management Associations (FERMA) has appointed Charlotte Hedemark as the next president of FERMA. Her election was announced at the first meeting of the new FERMA Board following the Annual General Assembly in Brussels on June 27.
Hedemark is a risk management expert at SAP and is currently vice president and a board member of FERMA. Her tenure as president begins officially on Oct. 17 at the closing of the FERMA Seminar 2023 in Belgium. She succeeds Dirk Wegener after he completes his four-year tenure as president.
“It is an honour to be elected president of FERMA. During a period of unprecedented challenges for corporations across Europe, the criticality of FERMA’s role in representing the interests of its member associations and raising the profile of the risk profession has never been greater,” commented Hedemark.
“As we look forward during this time of uncertainty, FERMA will continue to act as a strategic radar for the industry, monitoring developments, informing associations, and addressing policymakers. In my role, I will work to ensure FERMA continues to be a rallying point for our members as we all strive to be risk leaders,” she added.
“I am delighted that Charlotte has been elected to the position of president. Her deep understanding of the risk management function and commitment to evolving and elevating the profession through her involvement with the wider risk community make her the ideal candidate to take the helm at FERMA as we help guide our members and represent their interests at all levels,” Wegener said.
“Ms. Hedemark is a highly accomplished and respected risk professional and has been a central figure in the ongoing development of FERMA in recent years. She has worked in Global Risk & Assurance Services (GR&AS) at SAP for more than 15 years and is presently a risk management expert in Customer Success Risk Assurance Services. The Risk Assurance (CSRA) team systematically manages and monitors risks in the context of sales and services activities that may impact the successful execution of SAP’s strategy,” Wegener continued.
Hedemark has a Master of Science in Business Administration and started her career in Brussels working for European industry associations for 12 years. She has been a board member of DARIM since 2015. She is also RIMAP®, PMI-RMP® & RIMS-CRMP® certified.
Source: Federation of European Risk Management Associations (FERMA)