Aston Lark, a Howden company, announced the acquisition of AJ Insurance Service Ltd. Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
Based in Tilbury in Essex, England, AJ Insurance Service was established in 1979 by father and son, Albert and John Wyatt. AJ Insurance is still a family business, retaining many of their original clients and with several long-serving team members.
The original focus of the business was personal lines, but the commercial side began to grow alongside the business needs of many of those private clients. Today, AJ Insurance has a significant commercial focus, with specialisms in construction, motor fleet and motor trade, and a growing property account. The team also continues to provide household insurance and motor insurance, specializing in drivers over 80 years of age or those requiring extended overseas use.
AJ Insurance’s strengths lie in the expertise they have in niche areas and the much-valued relationships they have with their clients and providers.
“As soon as I met John, it was clear that AJ Insurance and Aston Lark have an identical customer service ethos. In fact, we were introduced to each other by a mutual friend who thought that a deal would be a great fit – how right he was!” commented Peter Blanc, Aston Lark group CEO.
“I’m delighted that John and the team have decided to join the Aston Lark and Howden family – and I’m certain that the business will grow and thrive over the coming years.”
“Our clients are our primary consideration. To move our business forward, we therefore looked for a partner who not only has the resource to help us grow, but who also shared our values,” said John Kemp, managing director of AJ Insurance Service.
“When considering who to partner with, it was very important to us that we found a like-minded broking firm with a first-rate reputation for commitment to clients, and one that was well respected within the insurance industry. Aston Lark felt like a perfect fit for us, our team and our clients,” Kemp added.
“As AJ Insurance moves forward with the additional strength of Aston Lark, we feel we can guarantee our clients the best solutions to their insurance needs, with the same commitment to high level customer service as previously.”
Operating in the UK and Ireland, Aston Lark has 1,900 employees in 70-plus offices, 200,000 customers and more than £1.1 billion of GWP. It has expertise in all commercial sectors, industry-specific schemes, employee benefits consultancy, and private client solutions.
Source: Aston Lark

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
