Mosaic Insurance has welcomed its second year of summer interns, expanding the program to include students at its Bermuda, New York, and London offices.
Skyler Powell, 20, is working as a Communications, Marketing & Special Projects intern at the global specialty insurer’s Bermuda headquarters. Adiv Kuray, 18, is based at Mosaic’s New York City office, where he supports political violence and cyber underwriting divisions. And McKenzie-Kohl Tuckett, 18, Mosaic’s first intern in Bermuda in 2021, returns to do a learning stint with the claims team at the company’s London office.
“We’re thrilled to be able to engage these three very talented students in the work we do as a growing global insurance start-up,” said Chief of Staff Lisa Fontanetta. “Not only are they getting an immersion in their respective fields of focus, but they’re also networking with team members across different regions of the world, contributing to our unique culture as we grow, and hopefully gaining valuable insights they can use in their future careers.”
Powell, a Bermudian senior at Rollins College, Florida, is on track to graduate next spring with a Bachelor of Arts in Communications with a concentration in Public Relations, minoring in Social Entrepreneurship. At Mosaic, she attends company strategy meetings; shadows underwriters; curates content for the corporate website, news releases and social channels (including a ‘takeover’ of its Instagram Stories); and helps with production of Mosaic’s new podcast series, “Mosaic Moment.” She is also conducting research and drafting statements and policy initiatives for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) and Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) strategies.
“Working in Bermuda for Mosaic’s Communications & Marketing division, with access to the leadership team, underwriters, and members of the finance team has been an extraordinary opportunity—the culture here is unmatched,” said Powell. “Being an intern at a brand new company has also allowed me amazing opportunities, including the chance to contribute to policy work and other in-depth content. It is very rewarding.”
Kuray, a sophomore at George Washington University, Washington, DC, is majoring in International Affairs. Placed with Mosaic’s political violence and cyber divisions in Manhattan, he is researching domestic and international security threats, and supporting underwriters with data using industry pricing tools. He also prepares reports on geopolitical issues relevant to Mosaic’s specialty lines.
“Mosaic’s work in political violence aligns with my interests in global security,” said Kuray, an executive member of GW’s Model UN Team who organizes conferences to debate global security issues, with a focus on terrorism. “In my course at the Elliot School of International Affairs, we focus on analyzing implications of various conflict zones across the world. It’s amazing to learn about the intersection of this and how the Lloyd’s syndicated markets operate.”
Tuckett wrapped her first successful year of law school at the University of Bristol, UK, where among other achievements, she was elected by peers as first-year law representative; won the Bristol Law Club’s first-year debate competition; became a student ambassador for the law school; and volunteered for several charities. She received the Bristol PLUS Award, recognizing her work experience and extracurricular activities.
Before kicking off her second year, Tuckett returns to Mosaic later this summer—this time at its London office, where she’ll shadow and work with its claims team. Mosaic’s UK law firm, RPC, has also invited Tuckett to participate in the firm’s interactive virtual experience program. She hopes both experiences will expand her network and teach her more about insurance law, particularly in the claims sphere, before she decides on a legal specialty.
“I am thrilled to have the opportunity to work with the Mosaic family again, in a new location with different team members,” Tuckett said. “I’m also grateful to RPC for the chance to meet colleagues and engage with their virtual programme. I know both experiences will help give me the insights I need to choose my future career path.”
Source: Mosaic Insurance

Topics
New York
London
