BHSI Names Guinea to Customer Engagement Post in Spain
Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI) announced that Eduardo Guinea has joined the organization as head of customer and broker engagement in Spain. He will be based in Madrid.
Guinea comes to BHSI with nearly 20 years of industry experience, much of it focused on building market relationships. He was most recently head of distribution, Iberia, and a member of the country leadership team at AXA. He has also worked at XL and AIG.
Catalina Appoints New CEOs in Asia and U.S.
Catalina Holdings (Bermuda) Ltd., which operates in the insurance legacy retrospective space, has appointed Wei-Lyn Loh as CEO of Asia and Luann Petrellis as CEO of the U.S.
Loh has assumed the CEO role of Asia from Martin Kauer upon his retirement. She was the chief corporate officer prior to her last held role as chief operating officer under Catalina for Asia. She was responsible for internal organization processes and infrastructure while supporting the company’s strategy and objectives. Loh has 20 years of headquarters and regional management experience across public and private sectors. She will work with Malcolm Steingold to seek new opportunities in the Asian market.
Petrellis is taking over the role from Amy Gallent who will be retiring later in the year.  Her most recent experience was as an Independent Industry advisor and consultant, with a focus on insurance restructuring legislation in the U.S. market. She has helped companies manage their legacy liabilities and been involved in transactions for all lines of business to achieve operational efficiencies. Petrellis also held the role of managing director, Philadelphia, at PricewaterhouseCoopers.

Topics
USA
