Verlingue has launched Verlingue London Markets following the rebranding of specialist Lloyd’s and London market wholesale broker NBJ London Markets.
The business also has made a number of senior hires to expand its access to markets and expertise for its broker panel.
NBJ London Markets, which specializes in placing difficult risks for motor fleet, property, and liability, serves both parent broker Verlingue UK, and a number of independent community brokers across the UK.
Barry Reynolds, who has over 35 years’ London market insurance experience will be joining as executive director from the Jensten Group, where he led the UK and EEA Lloyd’s Broking businesses.
Prior to this role he co-founded the Tasker Group in 2000 after having spent 12 years in broking and underwriting roles in the London market.
Verlingue’s other senior hires to join the team recently are:
The new hires will join Grant Pye, head of Property, and Andi Turner, head of Casualty, on the senior management team.
“NBJ London Markets is a well-known and respected part of our operation, and this rebrand is part of our overall strategy to build an exciting and capable business for our broking partners,” commented Verlingue’s UK CEO Mike Latham.
“It was a natural next step to bring the name more in line with our UK and European brand whilst retaining its distinct specialty. The name change is only a small part of the overall expansion of our business, as we have also made several new senior hires to further enhance our access to markets, technical capability, and exceptional service provision,” Latham added.
“Our broker partners have repeatedly told us that they have seen a significant erosion in service levels across London market wholesale brokers in recent years,” he said.
“Their request was simple – deliver high levels of ongoing service and access to market expert brokers and we would have something very different from everyone else right now. So, that’s exactly what we’ve done. We’ve rebuilt, reshaped, and relaunched our proposition and we’re delighted with the caliber of professionals who have chosen to join us on this exciting project.”
Source: Verlingue

Topics
London
