Global reinsurance broker Gallagher Re announced the appointment of Linda Johnson as vice chairperson for its North American team, Daniel Veiga as CEO of Gallagher Re Brazil, Treaty Operation, Jia Lou as CEO of Mainland China & Hong Kong, with effect from 1 June, and Alex Xia as head of Gallagher Re in Beijing. All the appointments are effective on June 1.
The executives’ roles and biographies are detailed below.
She brings more than 30 years of industry experience to Gallagher Re. She previously spent 15 years at TigerRisk Partners, where she was a founding partner, executive team member, and most recently served as Global Legacy Solutions Practice leader. Prior to TigerRisk, Johnson was a senior executive with Aon Benfield.
With more than 18 years of reinsurance industry experience, Veiga joins Gallagher Re from IRB Re Brazil. Over the last 15 years, Veiga has held a number of underwriting and executive roles, leading the strategy and development of specialty risks from 2014 to 2021, with a strong focus on agriculture, financial lines, surety and credit, marine and aviation. Since 2021, he served as chief underwriting officer for all IRB non-life lines of business.
Veiga’s arrival within the Latin America & Caribbean division follows that of Junaid Seria, hired in February to head up Catastrophe Analytics, and Carlos Gonzalez and Harry Titherley, who joined as vice president and divisional director, respectively, in late 2022.
Most recently Lou was managing director, head of the South China region and Agriculture, at Guy Carpenter, based in Hong Kong. He began his career in the London and moved back to the region in 2010 to lead the newly established China Agriculture reinsurance treaty practice.

Topics
China
A.J. Gallagher
