Connect Underwriting Ltd., a London-based specialist reinsurance managing general agent, announced the availability of new capacity via Pixel Re, a new dedicated, monoline reinsurance vehicle for global property and downstream energy risks.
With exclusive Lloyd’s and London-market sourced capacity, Pixel Re will provide facultative reinsurance for large multinational risks on an excess-of-loss basis with immediate effect.
For attachment points of typically $500m and above, Pixel Re aims to meet growing demand for high quality capacity for larger line sizes, driven by inflationary pressures on insureds’ assets across the globe.
“We are excited to announce the addition of Pixel Re, which provides new capacity for property and downstream energy risks,” commented Jamil Elbahou, CEO and chief underwriting officer, Connect Underwriting.
“This is available immediately to select distribution partners that have a regular requirement for these attachment levels globally. Pixel Re is very much part of our commitment to leverage our expertise to bring more to the market and to fulfil the need for additional high-quality capacity in what is fast becoming an underserved area of the market,” Elbahou added.
About Connect Underwriting
Connect Underwriting Ltd, a managing general agent and Lloyd’s coverholder, is a specialist, London-based re/insurance underwriting group with operations in the UK and Europe. Founded in 2017 by Jamil Elbahou, ConnectUW is a rapidly growing business, underwriting on behalf of Lloyd’s and other first-class securities and providing capacity via the leading intermediaries of the world.
Source: Connect Underwriting Ltd.

Topics
New Markets
Insurance Wholesale
Property
