This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI) and the software developer Broker Insights.
BHSI Names Riley to Lead Casualty Business in Canada as DeSouza Retires
Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI) announced the promotion of Galan Riley to senior vice president, Casualty, in Canada. He was previously vice president, Casualty.
In his new role, Riley succeeds Darryl DeSouza, who is retiring after nearly 10 years with the company.
Riley will oversee all BHSI casualty lines in Canada, including energy, products, general casualty, commercial auto, construction, contractors professional and pollution liability. He has more than two decades of experience underwriting casualty risks in the Canadian marketplace.
Riley joined BHSI in 2014 as assistant vice president, Energy Casualty, and was promoted to vice president in 2019. He is based in Toronto and can be reached at Galan.Riley@bhspecialty.com.
“Our casualty team and casualty business have seen tremendous growth over the past decade, and Galan and Darryl were pivotal in developing and executing our strategy for expansion,” said Kathy Reid, head of Casualty, North America, at BHSI. “I’m excited to work closely with Galan as he leads this important business into the future and wish Darryl all the best in his retirement.”
In Canada, BHSI provides general liability, lead umbrella and excess liability insurance for companies in a range of industries, with a focus on severity-exposed accounts. The company also specializes in construction (practice & project), energy, and manufacturing liability solutions.
Broker Insights Names Scott CEO Succeeding Edmond Who Becomes President
Broker Insights, the Dundee, Scotland-based software developer, announced changes to its leadership team as the company gears up to accelerate its UK growth and expansion in the United States.
Peter Scott will join as chief executive officer following six months of working in an advisory capacity to the company. Scott brings over 20 years of leadership experience in high-growth technology-based businesses and has significant international expertise. He has held senior interim roles in FTSE 100 and private equity companies and successfully led the joint venture between Dixons Carphone and Sprint in the US.
Founder and current CEO Fraser Edmond has been appointed president and will spearhead Broker Insights’ international expansion. He will split his time between the US and the UK and will continue to engage with all UK customers and stakeholders.
In addition to these appointments, Broker Insights will shortly announce the appointment of two commercial directors who will focus on specific customer groups.
“We are delighted Peter is joining us at this exciting phase in our company’s journey as we accelerate our growth and expansion. We have some amazing new products launching later this year that will reinforce our commitment to bringing data-led decision making to the insurance industry,” commented Edmond.
“We are creating a global leader in the commercial insurance market and bringing to life our company’s mission to ’empower the commercial insurance industry through data-driven decisions,'” he added.
“Broker Insights’ performance and progress to date have been exceptional. The business is well-positioned to further grow in the UK and launch in the US, and I look forward to continuing to work closely with Fraser and the executive to take Broker Insights to the next level both here in the UK and also the US,” Scott said.
Broker Insights was founded in the UK in 2018, and the company expanded into the US in 2023. Broker Insights Vision™ Decision Intelligence platform compiles and standardizes commercial insurance market data, enabling brokers and insurers to work together efficiently. The broker’s analytics tools are used by brokers to explore, simulate and act on insights and make better placement decisions, and interact with insurers to boost efficiency and earnings. Vision Enterprise is licensed to larger national and global brokers and networks, which can then customize it for their own markets.

Topics
Agencies
Liability
Canada
Casualty
