Axis Insurance Managers Inc., the Vancouver, Canada-based insurance broker, announced it has acquired the O’Neill Group, one of British Columbia’s premier employee group benefits, life insurance, and wealth advisory firms.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
O’Neill Group is a full-service benefits, life, and wealth advisory firm established in 1985, with 12 staff operating out of its Vancouver office. O’Neill Group will operate as a practice group under Axis Insurance’s umbrella.
“The strategic alliance with Axis expands our capabilities and extends our reach, enhancing the services we can provide to our clients. Having worked alongside Axis for over 10 years, we are confident in a shared vision and dedication to excellence, deeply rooted in our aligned values and company culture, and are excited to continue to provide personalized, top-tier service to our clients and plan members,” said Thomas O’Neill, president of O’Neill Group.
With roots dating back to 1928, and over 350 employees, Axis Insurance specializes in commercial, life, employee benefits, and wealth advisory service, serving local, national, and international clients.
“Expanding in the benefits and wealth advisory business with the acquisition of the O’Neill Group represents an exciting new step for Axis,” said Alex Meier, chief executive officer of Axis Insurance. “The addition of O’Neill Group continues to build upon our existing benefits practice, and positions Axis Insurance well on its journey to become a leading national specialty brokerage.”
Source: Axis Insurance

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Canada
Employee Benefits
