This edition of International People Moves details appointments at insurance broker Miller and the insurer Tokio Marine HCC International.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Miller Appoints Thevenot for Strategic Sports and Entertainment Team
Miller, the London-based independent specialist re/insurance broker, announced the appointment of Cedric Thevenot as an account executive.
Joining on Sept. 2, Thevenot will be based in Paris and work closely with Didier Loiseau, head of Miller Sport in Paris, as well as Miller’s wider Sports and Entertainment team.
With more than 30 years in the market, Thevenot most recently worked with Verspieren (the independent French broker) and also has held senior roles at Gras Savoye and AXA where he focused on the sports and entertainment sector.
Miller said the appointment builds on its European sports and entertainment proposition, as well as its acquisition of Henner Sport in 2022. Clients supported by Miller Sport and Entertainment include over 50 clubs across football, basketball, rugby, cycling and handball and more than 850 professional footballers in 30 different countries, including 75% of the French national football and basketball teams.
“We’re delighted to announce that Cedric will be joining the team in Paris. He has an outstanding reputation in our market and, having known him for many years, I know he will be an excellent fit for our business as we look to continue the strong growth of our sports and entertainment offering in Europe,” commented Loiseau.
Tokio Marine HCC International Promotes 2 in UK Trade Credit Division
Tokio Marine HCC International (TMHCCI), a member of the Tokio Marine HCC (TMHCC) group of companies based in Houston, Texas, announced the promotions of Fiona O’Brien to credit risk underwriting manager and Will O’Brien to risk underwriter within its UK Trade Credit Division.
Fiona O’Brien will have responsibility for the management of the risk underwriting team and her own specialist portfolio. She will continue to focus on strengthening relationships with broking partners. A seasoned trade credit expert with almost 20 years’ experience in the industry, O’Brien joined TMHCCI in 2015 as a senior underwriter and has excelled in her role ever since, said the company, noting that she currently manages the retail portfolio. She began her career at Grant Thornton, before moving to QBE Europe, where she served as an underwriter prior to joining TMHCCI.
Will O’Brien is set to assume the role of risk underwriter where he will take over Fiona O’Brien’s responsibility for the retail portfolio. TMHCCI said his promotion from credit analyst is a testament to his strong financial acumen, ability to process complex challenges efficiently, and commitment to driving the strategic objectives of the wider team.
To ensure a smooth transition, both Fiona O’Brien and Will O’Brien plan to work together over the coming months to communicate the developments with broking partners and policyholders.
“Fiona and Will have been key to the success of our trade credit business and these promotions recognise their underwriting expertise and our ambitions for this class,” commented Terry Macauley, deputy head of Risk.
“Demand for our specialist offering is growing, reflecting an increasingly complex risk landscape for insureds, and I am delighted that we have the talent inhouse to pursue our growth strategy. These promotions consolidate our expert team and complement our client-centric proposition and ambition to deliver continued growth across portfolios,” Macauley said.
A member of the Tokio Marine Group, Tokio Marine HCC (TMHCC) is a leading specialty insurance group with offices in the United States, Mexico, the United Kingdom and Continental Europe.

Topics
New Markets
