Coalition today announced the creation of its reinsurance intermediary, Coalition Re, to provide capacity for cyber reinsurance treaties and expand on its mission to protect more unprotected businesses.
Coalition Re provides capacity for non-proportional cyber reinsurance treaties, as well as a cyber insurance product with up to 100% quota share support for cedants seeking to offer cyber insurance as an endorsement to an existing insurance product offering. Both are available globally and supported by a panel of capacity providers led by Aspen.
“In reinsurance, there is often a breakdown of information where reinsurers know less about policyholders than the primary insurers. Combine that with a lack of cyber expertise and proper data usage among reinsurers, and the result is inaccurately priced reinsurance contracts and a misconception around how to measure cyber accumulation exposure,” said Shawn Ram, Head of Insurance at Coalition. “Coalition Re is a new type of reinsurance provider whereby we equip carriers with deeper insights into the cyber risk in their books, which adds value far beyond simply adding capacity. By democratizing Coalition’s industry-leading technology, we can better align interests with cedants and promote a more stable cyber reinsurance market.”
Coalition Re said it builds a bottom-up view to price non-proportional reinsurance contracts accurately, giving primary cedents the ability to learn more about their cyber insurance policyholders and gain visibility into key sources of risk within their portfolios. In addition, Coalition Re offers cedants a product that includes the full suite of risk mitigation tools and services currently available only for Coalition’s standalone Active Cyber Insurance policyholders.

Topics
Reinsurance
