Jensten, the London-based independent insurance broking and underwriting group, has completed the acquisition of Berns Brett following regulatory approval.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
With offices in London, West Sussex and Cavan, Ireland, Berns Brett brings a team of 40, and more than 5,000 clients to the group. The company focuses on servicing mid-market corporate clients across multiple sectors.
The business advises clients on large and complex risks, which it can place into Lloyd’s via its London market team. The business also has a specialist private clients division with dedicated propositions for high-net-worth individuals and sports professionals.
David Skinner, managing director of Berns Brett, will continue to lead the business, reporting to Robin Thomson, managing director of Jensten Insurance Brokers.
Insurance management consultants MD, Vincent Gardner, advised Berns Brett on the deal.
“We wanted to join a business where our strengths would be valued and where there was a good cultural fit. Talking to Jensten it was obvious there was alignment on the importance we place on clients and people and on what we could bring to the group,” commented David Skinner, MD of Berns Brett.
Since 2021, Jensten has acquired 20 brokers as the business pursues a strategy of building and growing strong regional and specialist centres of excellence. The addition of an Irish business marks Jensten’s first acquisition outside of the UK.
“Berns Brett is a great acquisition for lots of reasons. Their offices in London and the South-East strengthen our existing regional presence, and the Irish business opens up a new region for us with significant opportunities,” said Rob Organ, Jensten Retail MD. “The business also gives us further capability as we develop our mid-market proposition and gives us additional expertise in HNW and our private clients offering. We’re delighted to have David and the team join us and are excited to work together to grow.”
Source: Jensten Group

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
London
