Jensten,  the London-based independent insurance broking group, has acquired Scrutton Bland Insurance Brokers for an undisclosed amount.
The deal brings a team of more than 50 across two additional offices and GWP of £22 million to Jensten.
Based in Ipswich, England, Scrutton Bland Insurance Brokers provides broking service to clients across multiple sectors, with a particular focus on commercial property. The business boasts well-established charity and agricultural specialisms, with an in-depth understanding of the unique requirements of clients in these sectors, said Jensten in a statement.
The deal will strengthen Jensten’s regional center of excellence in East Anglia, as it follows last month’s announcement that saw Jensten complete a deal to acquire East Anglia-based One Broker Group.
Scrutton Bland Insurance Brokers will join One Broker as Jensten pursues a regional and specialist centres of excellence strategy, focused on growing both a broader regional footprint, and a larger number of specialisms.
Tim Mulley, director at Scrutton Bland Insurance Brokers, will continue to lead the business, reporting to Sean Clark, Jensten Insurance Brokers regional managing director.
“It was important to us that we join a business with a good cultural fit and a clear focus on clients. It was evident right from the beginning that this was the case with Jensten. We have a strong presence in the East Anglian region and preserving that local connection with our clients was important for us,” commented Mulley.
“We wanted to join a business that was able to support our growth, offer continued stability to our clients, at the same time as genuinely appreciating the significance of preserving our regional connection,” Mulley said.
“We’re seeing real success as we grow our regional footprint across the UK. Our recent announcement in Yorkshire and now additional investment into East Anglia are testament to our strategic focus of establishing regional centres of excellence,” remarked Rob Organ, Jensten Retail MD.
“At the same time, we want to grow our specialist capabilities, with propositions focused on specific client and industry sectors. Scrutton Bland Insurance Broker’s reputation for providing a high-quality and tailored service to clients across East Anglia, as well as their specialist offering to charity and agricultural communities makes them a great new addition to Jensten…,” Organ continued.
Source: Jensten

Topics
Agencies
