This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Generali Global Corporate & Commercial and Ryan Financial Lines.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
GC&C Appoints Key Leaders in Mediterranean & LatAm Region
Generali Global Corporate & Commercial (GC&C) announced two key appointments within the Mediterranean & Latin America region, under the leadership of Patricia Puerta.
Effective Nov. 1, 2024, GC&C deployed an organizational change within the region by establishing the Business Transformation & Technical Excellence unit, headed by Jose Maria Romero de Tejada, reporting directly to Puerta. This new structure aims to lead business transformation and support the development of strategic initiatives across GC&C Mediterranean & Latin America functions and countries.
Additionally, effective Dec. 2, 2024, Mikel Bermejo has been appointed as head of Underwriting, also reporting directly to Puerta. Bermejo joins the group with significant experience in the corporate insurance sector.
Jose Maria Romero de Tejada has a distinguished career in the insurance industry, with over 13 years of experience at Generali spanning various areas including, civil engineering underwriting, strategic planning, operational efficiency, and technical excellence. Prior to this new role, he covered several leadership positions within GC&C Mediterranean & Latin America such as head of Claims and head of Operations & IT. He holds a Master in Insurance Business Management from ICEA – Pontifical University of Salamanca, an executive MBA in Business Administration from IESE Business School – University of Navarra and a Master of Science in Civil Engineering from Polytechnic University of Catalonia.
Mikel Bermejo brings a wealth of experience from within the corporate insurance sector. He held key positions in underwriting and risk management, most recently serving as head of Property Iberia at QBE Europe in Madrid. In this role, he managed a growing, profitable portfolio together with a multicultural team. Bermejo also led significant international projects in underwriting and operational areas, including defining new underwriting strategies for the European region. He holds a bilingual bachelor’s degree in business administration from Carlos III University of Madrid and a project management post-graduate degree program from IESE Business School – University of Navarra. 




***
Ryan Financial Lines Names Winborn as President, Mitchell as COO
Ryan Specialty, headquartered in Chicago, expanded its executive leadership team for its international financial lines managing general underwriter, Ryan Financial Lines (RFL), effective Jan. 1, 2025
Richard Winborn, who is based in London, will join the team as president. Winborn most recently launched and served as managing partner of Themis, a division of Innovisk Capital Partners, which Ryan Specialty recently acquired. Richard will focus on continued international expansion and retail operations in the U.S.
Patrick Mitchell, RFL’s chief underwriting officer, will expand his role to serve as chief operating officer. Mitchell, who is based in New York City, joined RFL in May 2024 and has over 20 years of underwriting and operational experience, most recently serving as executive risks lead at Coalition, Inc. Previous roles include management liability product head at Hiscox USA and head of SME for financial lines at AIG.
RFL was formed in December 2023 by unifying the operations of EmergIn Risk, StartPoint, Ryan Specialty Nordics, Capital Bay and the three professional liability programs of Ryan Specialty National Programs platform. Since the inception of RFL, Ryan Specialty Underwriting Managers has added several key acquisitions, including Geo Europe, Castel NAPL and various financial lines underwriting units of Innovisk.

Topics
Leadership
