This edition of International People Moves details appointments at the broker NFP and homeowners’ insurer, Openly.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
NFP Appoints Markel’s Horsman as Head of Canadian National Broking
NFP, the New York City-based property/casualty insurance broker and consultant, announced that Emily Horsman has joined the company as head of Canadian National Broking.
Horsman will lead efforts in building NFP’s national broking platform in Canada alongside Canadian broking and business line leaders and underwriting partners.
She will also collaborate closely with NFP’s U.S. broking colleagues and lead carrier relations in Canada. Horsman will report to Mark Wiens, head of Commercial Insurance for NFP in Canada.
Horsman has more than 20 years of broking, underwriting and leadership experience. She joins from Markel Canada, where she served as vice president, Alternative Distribution. Prior to this, she served as vice president, broker for Willis Towers Watson.
She worked in a variety of broker and underwriting roles for Aon Reed Stenhouse and ACE INA Insurance. Horsman earned a Fellow, Charter Insurance Professional designation from the Insurance Institute of Canada and a Canadian Risk Management designation from the Global Risk Management Institute.
Horsman will concentrate on NFP’s growing mid-market P/C business, while providing support across its Small and Midsize Enterprise and Complex Risk Solution teams, said Wiens in a statement.
Insurer Openly Expands Reinsurance Division, Hiring Landi From Everest Re
Openly, the Boston-based homeowners insurance provider, has announced the appointment of Anthony Landi as head of Reinsurance and Capital Management. Landi will lead Openly’s reinsurance division and scale up its internal catastrophe management program.
Prior to joining Openly, Landi spent 10 years at Everest Reinsurance, where he most recently established and led the Office of Portfolio Management for the reinsurance division. Previously, Landi held various lead underwriting and strategy roles across U.S. property treaty reinsurance, worldwide direct and facultative (D&F) property reinsurance, and worldwide property retrocession.
Founded by insurance industry veterans Ty Harris and Matt Wielbut, Openly uses next-generation data and technology to offer customer-friendly home insurance policies. Over the past year, the company has achieved 700% growth in in-force premium, 250% growth in independent insurance agents selling on its platform, and has hired more than 100 employees.

Topics
Carriers
Talent
Reinsurance
Canada
