This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Aon, Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI) and AXIS Capital Holdings.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Aon Promotes Sapra as CEO of Reinsurance Solutions in India
Insurance broker Aon plc announced that Shailendra Sapra had been named CEO of the firm’s Reinsurance Solutions in India and a member of the APAC region’s Reinsurance Executive Committee, effective June 1, 2024.
Based in Mumbai and reporting to George Attard, CEO of Reinsurance for Aon’s APAC region, Sapra previously served in a range of varied positions at the firm, having joined Aon’s Reinsurance Analytics team in 2010, before leading its Asia Pacific agriculture practice and client management function across several large regional and Singapore-based accounts.
In his new role, Sapra will seek to identify and develop growth opportunities for insurers and reinsurers presented by India’s rapidly developing insurance market. This will involve aiming to close the country’s significant insurance protection gaps and supporting the development of new and existing lines, through delivering additional capacity, and innovation in solutions and services.
“India is predicted to have the fastest growing insurance sector of all G20 countries over the next five years; when coupled with the country’s fast-growing economy, a pro-active regulator, and an appetite for technology and innovation, its emerging insurance sector is clearly on an upwards trajectory,” commented Attard.
BHSI Names du Ché as Country Manager, France
Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI) has appointed Louis du Ché to the additional role of country manager, France. He is currently country manager, Belgium.
du Ché has more than 15 years of insurance industry experience. He joined BHSI in 2019 as head of Property, France, and was named country manager, Belgium, in 2022.
Previously, du Ché was global property underwriting manager, for the Benelux (Belgium, the Netherlands, and Luxembourg) region at AIG. Prior to that, he was global property deputy underwriting manager in France for AIG and worked as property/casualty underwriter in AXA, according to his LinkedIn profile.
He is based in France and can be reached at louis.duche@bhspecialty.com.
“Louis has been instrumental in establishing our stellar team and growing our presence in Belgium,” said Alessandro Cerase, head of Europe, BHSI. “I am pleased to have him also lead our team in France as we further expand our business and bring the industry-leading service and financial strength of BHSI to more customers and business partners in this key market.”
AXIS Canada Launches EIL Unit, Led by Liberty Mutual’s Nagata
AXIS Capital Holdings Ltd. announced it is expanding its suite of specialty insurance solutions in North America by launching a Canadian Environmental Impairment Liability (EIL) insurance unit. This will be led by Ludwig Nagata, who has joined AXIS as assistant vice president, Environmental, Canada.
From Q2 2024, AXIS Canada will provide EIL coverages, specifically targeting contractors’ pollution liability, pollution legal liability, and follow-form environmental business.
Nagata brings 20 years of environmental underwriting and business leadership experience to AXIS. For the past 12 years, Nagata led an environmental underwriting team at Liberty Mutual.
He will be based in Toronto with a national focus. Nagata reports to Andrew Johnson, chief underwriting officer for Casualty and Programs in Canada.
“Launching Environmental Impairment Liability insurance in Canada speaks to our commitment at AXIS to elevate our specialty product suite to our brokers and customers,” said Johnson. “Ludwig has exceptional knowledge of the EIL landscape and deep relationships in the Canadian insurance industry.”
The expansion into EIL in Canada is supported by the existing Environmental team that is established within AXIS in the US.

Topics
Liability
Canada
Aon
