This edition of International People Moves details appointments at AXIS Capital Holdings and Marsh McLennan.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
AXIS Names Chubb’s Mitchell as Head of Global Markets, Succeeding Gregory
AXIS Capital Holdings Ltd., the Bermuda-based specialty re/insurer, announced that Sara Mitchell has been appointed as its future head of Global Markets. She succeeds Mark Gregory who will retire from the company in March 2025 following a career that spans five decades in the industry including 15 years with AXIS.
During his time with AXIS, Gregory has been instrumental in helping grow the company’s global presence as a specialty insurance leader.
Mitchell will join the company on Nov. 25 as strategic advisor to the head of Global Markets and will be a member of the company’s Executive Committee. Mitchell, who will be based in London, will assume the role of head of Global Markets on Jan. 1, 2025, as part of a planned leadership succession process and will report to AXIS President and CEO Vince Tizzio.
She joins AXIS following a 13-year tenure at Chubb where she held a series of leadership roles with increasing levels of responsibility. Since 2021, in her role as divisional president of Continental Europe and MENA, she was responsible for Chubb’s property and casualty, accident and health, and consumer lines operations across 25 countries. Previously, she served in managerial roles at RSA and Allianz Insurance.
Gregory joined AXIS in January of 2010 as CEO of its International Division and is currently a member of the company’s Executive Committee in his current role as head of Global Markets, where he has led the division since its formation. Prior to AXIS, Gregory spent 15 years at Marsh where he held a series of leadership positions including CEO roles for both Bowring Marsh and Marsh Global Markets. He started his insurance career with Sedgwick Group in 1980. In addition, Gregory has served on the boards of both the International Underwriting Association (IUA) and Lloyd’s Market Association (LMA).
“We are grateful to Mark for his tremendous leadership and years of service to AXIS. He has played a crucial role in helping elevate AXIS as a global specialty leader,” Tizzio said. “Under his guidance, we achieved a number of important milestones including the establishment of the AXIS Managing Agency at Lloyd’s with Mark serving as its first CEO, launch of AXIS Energy Transition Syndicate 2050, effective integration of Novae into AXIS, and establishment of AXIS as a top ten player at Lloyd’s by capacity, with recognition as an outperforming syndicate.”
Mitchell brings deep specialty P&C knowledge and an expansive international pedigree with experience managing multi-billion dollar businesses, Tizzio added. “She is a proven leader with an established track record for success, who shares our values.”
Marsh McLennan Names De Bremme as CEO of Belgium & Luxembourg
Marsh McLennan, the leading professional services firm, announced the promotion of Kristof De Bremme as CEO of Marsh McLennan, Belgium and Luxembourg, and president, Marsh, Belgium and Luxembourg, succeeding Rebecca Tielemans.
De Bremme will relocate from London to Brussels and report to Christos Adamantiadis, CEO, Marsh McLennan, Europe.
In this role, De Bremme will ensure that clients in the region have access to the wide range of services and solutions from across Marsh McLennan to meet the business challenges they face, with responsibility for leading a team across Marsh McLennan’s offices in Brussels, Luxembourg, Antwerp, and Ghent. In his leadership position at the insurance broker Marsh, he will be responsible to deliver market-leading insurance solutions and risk advisory services to clients across the Belgium and Luxembourg region.
De Bremme rejoined the business in December 2023 as Marsh’s head of Marine, Cargo & Logistics, Europe having begun his career at Marsh in 1998 as a senior client executive for global marine and energy clients, based in Antwerp, for nine years. Before returning to the business, he spent 14 years at AIG in various senior underwriting roles, most recently serving as global head of Marine from 2016 to 2022.
“While globally recognised as major hubs for policy, regulation and trade, companies operating in Belgium and Luxembourg are particularly vulnerable to fluctuating economic cycles and talent shortages, as well as risks associated with cyber threats and natural catastrophes such as flooding,” said De Bremme. “I look forward to working with Marsh McLennan’s risk, advisory, and analytics colleagues to deliver the best of the business to our clients in the Belgium and Luxembourg region, and contributing to their success.”

Topics
Chubb
