QBE has created a Healthcare practice group and has launched a Healthcare Advantage Liability product.
The Healthcare practice group will be supported by all regional offices in the UK and aims to provide a more focused approach to customers in the UK healthcare sector.
The company’s new combined liability product, Healthcare Advantage, features five separate sections covering medical liability, professional indemnity, general liability, abuse, and employers’ liability. Each section will have its own limit of indemnity.
Available through brokers, the QBE Healthcare Advantage Liability product ensures healthcare customers can use one insurer for their core liability cover.
Doug Walker will lead the new practice, supported by the Healthcare team in London, and underwriters in QBE offices around the country in Bristol, Birmingham, Manchester, Leeds, Glasgow and Belfast.
“This is an exciting opportunity to support our customers in the healthcare industry through the creation of the new practice group. Our Healthcare Advantage Liability product provides a single policy for core liability exposures facing the healthcare industry. It will reduce potential gaps in cover while providing a simplified process for brokers and customers,” commented Doug Walker, portfolio manager and Healthcare Practice lead, QBE Europe.
He went on to say that the new practice will enable QBE to take a more joined up approach across the healthcare industry and better respond “to the evolving demands of healthcare customers.”
QBE has been offering specialist insurance products in the healthcare sector for the industry for more than 25 years.
“The launch of our Healthcare Advantage product further supports our regional expansion plan.  With our regional leadership team now embedded, our focus is the continued growth of our core product lines, expanding our product and service offering, and developing relationships with more brokers and customers across the UK, giving them access to empowered local underwriters,” according to Andy Fitzgerald, director of UK Regions at QBE.
The new Healthcare practice group at QBE follows two other successful practice launches in the last few years: Construction and Sustainable Energy.
Source: QBE Europe

Topics
Liability
