Ardonagh Advisory announced the appointment of Richard Tuplin as CEO of Towergate Insurance Brokers, following the departure of Joe Thelwell.
Tuplin was previously CEO of Ethos Broking, part of Ardonagh’s Advisory platform, having joined Ethos in 2018. He has worked in independent broking for 18 years including as managing director of Jelf Insurance Partnership and regional director of Jelf Insurance Brokers.
At Towergate he will lead 2,800 people across 70 offices providing UK businesses with general insurance, risk management programmes and claims support. Tuplin’s appointment is subject to regulatory approval.
The reason for Thelwell’s exit was not disclosed.
“Richard will be a highly effective leader of the Towergate business. He brings an unwavering commitment to independent broking and a strong pedigree in executing strategy. He has delivered both organic and M&A growth throughout his career, whilst being relentless about continued improvement, in both himself and the businesses he leads. I would like to thank Joe for his significant contribution to Towergate and the wider Ardonagh Group over many years of service.”
Richard Tuplin, CEO of Towergate Insurance Brokers said: “I am delighted to be stepping into the role of CEO of Towergate. The Towergate business is built around a network of regional brokers at the heart of their communities with a loyal client base, loyal people and a good track record of delivery. I am very much looking forward to working with the teams to build an even more successful and exciting business that will go from strength to strength.”
About Ardonagh Advisory and The Ardonagh Group
Ardonagh Advisory Holdings Ltd is The Ardonagh Group’s SME broking platform comprised of Broker Network, Compass UK, Ethos Broking, Footman James, Towergate Insurance Brokers, Towergate Health & Protection, Towergate Riskline, Your Insurance and Usay Compare brands.
The Ardonagh Group is the UK’s largest independent insurance distribution platform and a top 20 broker globally. It is a collection of best-in-class entrepreneurial and specialist brands with a network of more 100 locations and a combined workforce of more than 8,000 people.
Source: Ardonagh Group