Axis Insurance Managers, a Vancouver, Canada-based insurance broker, has completed the acquisition of BMG Aviation Ltd., which does business as BMG Insurance Brokers, effective June 1, 2022.
A privately owned insurance brokerage firm, Vancouver-headquartered BMG specializes in aviation and aerospace risks.
Financial details of the transaction were not disclosed.
The acquisition of BMG immediately positions Axis as a leader in aviation and aerospace insurance, said Axis. Going forward, the group will operate under the Axis brand.
“Our focus is always on our client and in delivering tailored insurance programs designed to address their specific needs and wants. This evolution enables us to further enhance our client service, empower our people, and continue to ensure the best result for our clients,” said Maureen Crockett, managing director of BMG.
Maureen Crockett and Brian Julien will be responsible for leading and expanding Axis’ Aviation and Aerospace practice.
Axis Insurance serves local, national, and international clients with risk management and insurance services. With roots dating back to 1928, more than 150 employees, and offices throughout the province, it is one of the fastest growing and largest British Columbia-based brokerages. Axis is a major shareholder in the Ontario-based brokerage, Magnes Insurance Group, which also has an established aviation and aerospace practice. Newfoundland-based Wedgewood Insurance, is also a major shareholder in Magnes.
Source: Axis Insurance

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
Canada
