Specialist Risk Group (SRG), the London-based insurance intermediary, announced the launch of a new division serving the global entertainment, media, and sport industry.
This new entertainment, media, and sport division reflects the successful growth of SRG and the continuing development of its strategy to be the natural home of specialist individuals and businesses, the company said, noting that it has built a team of sector specialists to form the basis of the new division.
Specialist Risk Entertainment Media and Sport (SR EMS) will operate across SRG’s current distribution channels; retail broking; wholesale broking; underwriting and international. This means that clients from across the world are now able to access a highly skilled and experienced team who can meet the needs of their clients operating in this specialist area.
Formed in 2019, SRG has grown rapidly through its ongoing and ambitious organic and strategic growth strategy. In 2023 to date, the business has announced the acquisitions of Fleet and Commercial, Consort Insurance Brokers, The MPLC, TLO Risk Services, and Cheshire Insurance Brokers.
“This is another example of our strategy in action with the formation of a market leading entertainment, media, and sport division made up of people with truly specialist capability. SRG has been relentless in its pursuit of specialisms bringing together leaders from across the market to flourish in a specialist environment,” commented Warren Downey, SRG Group CEO.
“We are of course always looking to speak with specialist individuals, teams and firms who are interested in joining a business committed to investing and developing their capabilities to maximum potential.”
Source: Specialist Risk Group (SRG)