NFP,  a New York City-based property/casualty broker, announced it has acquired SeaChange Ltd., a health and safety consultancy based in Naas, County Kildare, in Ireland. This acquisition expands NFP’s European health and safety capabilities and solutions for the company’s Irish, UK and mainland European clients.
Financial details of the deal, which closed on Oct. 1, were not disclosed.
Founded in 2005 by Ger Cummins as a family-run business, SeaChange delivers sustainable safety management solutions to its clients, empowering businesses to fully engage their workforce and become leaders in health and safety best practices. SeaChange employs 25 people and partners with their 300 clients across Ireland, Europe and the United States.
“Acquiring SeaChange provides an exciting opportunity to support our clients in new ways, offering them access to an in-house health and safety consultancy as another way to mitigate overall business risk,” said Matt Pawley, president, NFP in Europe. “This strategic move gives NFP another competitive edge and an exciting progression into health and safety consulting in Ireland.”
“Joining NFP represents a new era for SeaChange and a very proud moment for our business and family,” said Dr. Paul Cummins, CEO, SeaChange. “NFP has a very successful business in Ireland, and we believe this next step will offer NFP and SeaChange clients a wider breadth of corporate services to help manage risk and support a more competitive insurance offering. I look forward to leading our company on the next chapter of its business journey.”
Source: NFP

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
