Marsh, the insurance broker, risk adviser and Marsh McLennan business, announced the addition of significant new capacity to its Fast Track facility. From March 1, 2025, clients can access up to 10% automatic capacity across their entire property and casualty portfolios, as well as specialty risks.
The only major broker facility of its kind, Fast Track is accessible to clients directly through any Marsh office worldwide and does not require London placement, Marsh said in a statement.
Launched in April 2023, Fast Track is led by QBE and backed by Lloyd’s syndicates Canopius, Arch, and Beazley. Since its launch, Fast Track has facilitated over 15,000 policies worldwide and bound premium is projected to surpass the $1 billion mark in 2025.
Fast Track’s “follow form” structure means that all client placements follow the same terms and conditions as the lead underwriter, including claims decisions, and includes an automatic 2.5% client premium discount.
“The addition of the new capacity is a significant milestone in Fast Track’s evolution. Since its launch, Fast Track has quickly established itself as a market-leading global facility which is built to sustain dynamic market conditions and deliver exceptional value to our clients around the world,” commented John Donnelly, global head of Placement, Marsh.
“The addition of the new capacity means our clients can achieve more optimal placement outcomes and more confidently navigate today’s evolving insurance landscape,” Donnelly said.
Source: Marsh