This edition of International People Moves details appointments at the re/insurer Canopius Group and the broker Evolin.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Patel Named Chair of Canopius Managing Agents, Succeeding Meader
Canopius Group, the global specialty re/insurer, announced the appointment of Hitesh Patel as the new chair of Canopius Managing Agents (CMA), effective April 1, 2025, subject to regulatory approval.
Patel will be succeeding Paul Meader, who will be stepping down after many years of distinguished service.
In addition to his new role as chairman of CMA, Patel will also serve as a non-executive director on the board of Canopius Group Ltd. (CGL).
CMA manages Canopius’ Lloyd’s syndicate 4444, which in 2025 became the single largest syndicate in the London market, with a capacity of £2.55 billion.
Patel currently is on the board of Enstar Group Ltd. and has previously served as a non-executive director for both Aviva Life and Aviva UK. Patel also currently serves as a non-executive director on the boards of Capital Home Loans, Landmark Mortgages and Augusta Ventures. Patel spent much of his career at KPMG, serving most recently as the firm’s insurance lead partner.
Canopius also announced that Giorgia Rodigari, senior managing director of Centerbridge Partners, has joined the CGL board as a representative of Canopius’ majority shareholder, further strengthening the business’ governance and strategic oversight.
Canopius said that Meader has made significant contributions to the company, serving as an independent non-executive director of CGL and chair of CMA. Until 2012, he was head of Portfolio Management at Canaccord Genuity, and prior to this served as CEO of Corazon Capital.
“We are delighted to welcome Hitesh to both CMA and CGL Boards. His extensive background in the Insurance industry, financial markets, investment management as well as his past roles at prominent institutions, position him perfectly to lead Canopius Managing Agents into the future,” commented Andy Haste, chair of Canopius Group.
Haste went on to thank Meader for serving on Canopius’ boards for so many years. “His expertise and leadership have been invaluable, and we extend our deepest gratitude for his years of dedicated service.”
Evolin Broking Taps Miller’s Downing to Launch Construction Division
Evolin Broking Ltd., the independent London market wholesale insurance broker, announced the launch of its new construction division, with the appointment of Steve Downing as head of construction, effective immediately.
Downing will be based in London and report to managing director, Chris Baulf.
Downing will be responsible for building out the construction offering, which will include construction all risks, erection all risks, builders risk, delay in start-up and third party liability, complementing the existing construction liability offering. He will also be heavily focused on finding market leading talent to support product development and distribution.
Downing brings more than three decades of industry experience to the role. He has held a variety of senior positions in the sector, including terms as a senior vice president at Lockton and a director at Willis. Downing’s most recent role was at Miller Insurance Services, where he held the position of account executive.
About Evolin
Rebranded from GAWS of London in 2024, Evolin is a Lloyd’s of London broker and coverholder, which offers tailored wholesale insurance solutions that cover a variety of classes of business including cargo & stock throughput, casualty, construction, cyber, financial & professional lines, marine, product recall, property, terrorism & political violence, and specie.

Topics
Agencies
Talent
Construction
Human Resources
