This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Markel and Costero Brokers.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Markel Appoints Howden’s Woodhouse for War and Terrorism Team
Markel, the insurance operation of Markel Group Inc., has named Tim Woodhouse as senior underwriter within its War and Terrorism team.
Woodhouse will be based at Markel’s London office and report to Ed Winter, director of Terrorism, and will work closely joins Markel’s team of experts to develop insurance solutions that navigate the evolving risks in war, terrorism, and political violence, Markel said.
Woodhouse brings deep knowledge of the sector and is a skilled terrorism underwriter, with more than 20 years of experience within the insurance industry. He joins from Howden, where he was divisional director of Terrorism and Political Violence. Prior to this, Woodhouse was managing director of Political Violence at Dual Corporate Risks. He has also held leadership roles at Novae Group and StarStone Insurance.
Costero Brokers Taps Marsh’s Olley as Cyber Divisional Director
Costero Brokers Ltd., a privately held London-based brokerage, announced that Jonathan Olley has joined as cyber divisional director effective Nov. 27, 2023.
Olley comes to Costero following three and a half years cyber broking at Marsh in London where he was a senior vice president. Olley specialized in open-market cyber and tech E&O programs for large multinational and mid-market clients. Previously, Olley worked for a risk management consultancy and served in the British Army. His focus at Costero will be the growth of the company’s cyber offering, working with brokers and clients to place business in the London market.
Formed in 2017, Costero Brokers Ltd. is a re/insurance Lloyd’s wholesale broker that specializes in finding capacity for hard-to-place or emerging risks. Costero focuses on open market facultative, binding authority, reinsurance, and alternative risk transfer business placed into Lloyd’s of London, European, and international company markets. Costero Brokers is an approved Lloyd’s coverholder.

Topics
Catastrophe
Natural Disasters
Cyber
Agencies
