This morning the Lutine Bell in the Lloyd’s Underwriting Room rang once to mark the death of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II and twice for the accession of His Majesty King Charles III.
The ceremony was open to all Lloyd’s passholder, including members of the Lloyd’s market and employees of the Corporation of Lloyd’s.
“Our thoughts remain with the Royal Household at this sad time,” said Lloyd’s Chairman Bruce Carnegie-Brown. “We were fortunate to host Her Majesty at Lloyd’s on a number of occasions during her reign and all who were there cherish the memory of those visits. In recent years we have worked alongside His Majesty King Charles in support of his Sustainable Markets Initiative and look forward to continuing our close association with this important work to create a more sustainable world.”
Prince Charles Launches Partnership with Insurance Industry to Tackle Climate Change
The funeral for Britain’s longest-reigning monarch will be Sept. 19. It has been declared a day of National Mourning and will be a bank holiday in the UK. The Lloyd’s building and Underwriting Room will be closed on this day, as will Lloyd’s global offices.
The Lutine, a French ship that passed to British control in the late 1700s, was insured by Lloyd’s underwriters. It was wrecked during a storm off the Dutch coast in October 1799. Lloyd’s paid the claim in full, helping cement its reputation for paying valid claims. The bell was found some 60 years later and was eventually hung in the Underwriting Room, where it was rung once for a ship’s loss and twice for a safe return.
Lloyd’s has had a long association with the British Royal Family and posted a short film made to celebrate the queen’s Platinum Jubilee.


Topics
Excess Surplus
Lloyd's
