Global claims services provider McLarens has established a strategic alliance with Egypt Global Adjusters (EGA), a leading Egyptian loss adjusting firm, headquartered in Cairo.
Operating as McLarens’ exclusive affiliate in Egypt, the partnership with EGA will further strengthen McLarens’ regional footprint, offering both domestic and international clients’ access to comprehensive claims coverage across Egypt. The alliance also provides a platform for growth across North Africa.
The partnership enables McLarens to provide an immediate response to any claims matters arising in Egypt and better support clients across the London, European and Middle East re/insurance markets. This includes global accounts with operations in Egypt, for whom McLarens has historically handled claims via its UAE and/or London operations.
EGA’s team of loss adjusters and risk assessors offers loss adjusting, pre-risk survey, risk engineering survey and insurance evaluation services. With a focus on cross-class complex and commercial claims, the team is expert in handling losses across a range of industries and sectors, including engineering, marine, property and liability.
The affiliate business is led by founder and Chairman Khaled Anwer Abdulrahman. Khaled started his career as a loss adjuster in 2005 working with AHLA-Egypt Engineering Co., before becoming an independent loss adjuster in 2013. During his career to date he has conducted numerous industrial pre-risk surveys and handled claims across the commercial spectrum, including major fire, property, engineering, marine cargo, liability, theft, and business interruption losses.
The partnership will expand McLarens’ regional network in the Middle East & Africa, now incorporating 19 offices across 13 countries.
“We welcome this important partnership with McLarens. It enables Egypt Global Adjusters to further expand our offering, building upon our comprehensive range of services that we have developed,” commented Khaled Anwer Abdulrahman, founder & chairman, Egypt Global Adjusters. “It also allows us to become part of a global network of market-leading, technical adjusters and surveyors. McLarens and EGA are a great fit and we’re delighted to be part of the team.”
“Egypt has the largest economy in North Africa and the third largest in Africa. It is growing significantly, particularly in sectors where McLarens have significant expertise, including natural resources, construction, and hospitality & leisure,” said Chris Panes, chief operating officer, Europe, Middle East, Asia Pacific, McLarens.
“We were keen to partner with a strong and proven local adjusting company. Having worked with EGA for the past 12 months, it’s clear that the team is just that and, importantly, share the same client-centric ethos as McLarens. We are continuing to strengthen our Middle East & Africa network and this alliance will further extend our proposition for both domestic Egyptian and international clients,” Panes added.
Founded in 1932, McLarens is an independent global insurance services provider with offices and operations in 45 countries. With a focus on complex, commercial and niche markets, the company provides loss adjusting, claims and risk management services, as well as auditing and pre-risk surveying. The company’s adjusters have an average of over 20 years’ experience, operating across a range of industries with specialties including: property, casualty, crisis management, natural resources, construction & engineering, agriculture, aviation, forensic accounting, investigation, marine, FAJ & specie, global TPA services and environmental consulting services.
Source: McLarens

Topics
Profit Loss
