This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Liberty Specialty Markets, Arch Insurance International, and Rokstone’s iFarm Underwriting.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Liberty Specialty Markets Names Conran as CUO
Liberty Mutual Insurance’s Global Risk Solutions division (GRS) announced the appointment of Rachel Conran as chief underwriting officer, Liberty Specialty Markets (LSM), effective Jan. 1, 2023. LSM is the international commercial, specialty and reinsurance business of Liberty Mutual.
Conran will report to Matthew Moore, president, GRS Office of Underwriting, and Phil Hobbs, president and managing director of LSM.
She will be based in Cologne, Germany and will be responsible for underwriting performance across LSM.
Conran joins from Intact Financial Corp., where she most recently served as chief executive officer and board member of RSA Luxembourg. She has held senior management and chief underwriting roles at leading global insurers, successfully managing sizeable global portfolios of complex products and driving underwriting profitability, financial planning, and strategy.
Arch Insurance Int’l Taps WTW’s Bradley as Senior Cyber Underwriter
Arch Insurance International announced the appointment of Sam Bradley as senior cyber underwriter, effective immediately.
Bradley joins a growing cyber team and will support the continued development of the international account as well as the cyber property damage and business interruption portfolio. Based in London, Bradley reports to Marcus Breese, head of Cyber and Technology E&O.
An accomplished cyber practitioner, Bradley’s experience spans both broking and underwriting. He joins from Willis Towers Watson where he was a senior cyber broker. He has also held cyber underwriting roles at Liberty Specialty Markets and CFC Underwriting.
Rokstone’s iFarm Underwriting Recruits Specialists from Marsh and Geo
Rokstone’s farm and agriculture specialist, iFarm Underwriting, announced the recruitment of new talent to drive underwriting strategy and transform its digital underwriting capabilities.
Rokstone is a London-based managing general agency and subsidiary of Aventum Group.
As part of the strategy, Lee Ellis, highly respected in the market as a senior specialist in farm and agriculture underwriting, has been recruited to the group from Geo Underwriting where he was senior product manager for three years, managing its agricultural and SME products. Prior to Geo, Ellis spent eight years at Rural Insurance and 12 years at Direct Line.
Also joining the iFarm team as a senior underwriter is Jade Henry, bringing with her more than 10 years’ experience in both broking and underwriting with specific specialist experience of agricultural risks at Marsh Commercial, AXA and Rural Insurance. Henry will work within the iFarm team as part of a 20-strong unit of specialist farm and farm motor underwriters.
iFarm has also promoted Adam Mawer to underwriting manager from his previous position as development underwriter at iFarm. With 15 years’ experience in the market, Mawer also was agricultural propositions manager at Zurich and prior to that was at NFU Mutual for seven years. He has specialized in commercial, farm and estate, large fleet and high net worth insurance. In his new role Mawer will manage the farm portfolio and lead the iFarm team to profitably grow the book while delivering outstanding customer service to its partner brokers.
The iFarm team is working closely with Gavin Dollings, chief underwriting officer at Rokstone and his team, supported by some of the best actuarial tools in the market, to develop and improve iFarm’s digital underwriting for optimal performance. iFarm also offers Aventum Group’s in house valuations service, Securus, to provide accurate valuations to avoid the risks of underinsurance.
Securus is led by Lee Dunford and Bridget Slade, a chartered surveyor and dairy farmer, who brings specialist and knowledgeable risk management advice to the mix.
With a career of more than 25 years in the insurance industry, Dollings joined Rokstone earlier this year from Covea where he was commercial underwriting director for six years, leading the Commercial underwriting team, driving underwriting strategy and transforming underwriting disciplines and bottom-line performance. Prior to that he spent 10 years at Allianz firstly as head of Casualty & Construction and later leading its Southern Branch network. At Rokstone Dollings leads the growing digital underwriting team as part of the Aventum Group’s multi-million-pound investment in its digital transformation.
“Building on the success of iFarm’s already award winning quote and bind product suite for farms and agricultural businesses, we’ll be addressing how we can further utilize data analytics to support our brokers. Inflation will have a dramatic impact on most farm businesses, so we’ll be enhancing the products and pricing capabilities with digital tools that allow us to make more segmented pricing decisions based on granular data,” commented Dollings.
“This sophisticated level of segmentation will lead to more accurate pricing and give iFarm’s broker partners maximum flexibility to remain competitive whilst securing the best cover for their clients. Market leading farm underwriting expertise, combined with access to capacity across Rokstone’s 30+ panel of A rated carriers, sophisticated surveying and digital underwriting tools and award-winning products, will firmly position iFarm as a leader in the market for agricultural risks,” he added.
Rokstone, the London-based MGA and subsidiary of Aventum Group, has offices in the UK, Europe, USA, Asia, Africa and the Middle East. It underwrites US$800 million GWP in several re/insurance specialty lines including property, power generation, marine, aviation, terrorism & political violence, construction & engineering, and liability.

Topics
Cyber
Excess Surplus
Underwriting
Willis Towers Watson
