Property/casualty insurer Chubb announced it will launch a new technology services center in Thessaloniki, Greece, in early 2023, aiming to deliver innovative technologies that enhance the customer experience, increase efficiency and accelerate the company’s digital transformation.
Technical engineers and developers employed at the center will drive initiatives in areas such as intelligent process automation, machine learning, cloud, and data analytics, as well as cybersecurity and modernization of infrastructure systems.
“Chubb is a growing global company making significant investments to thrive in a digital age.  Our new center in Greece – the third technology hub we have announced since 2019 – is positioned to drive our ongoing business and to support our digital business transformation, as well as the company’s operations in the European region which encompasses 27 countries,” said Thomas Kropp, senior vice president, Chubb Group, and global operations and technology officer.
“The capabilities developed here will increase our efficiency and enhance the experience we provide customers,” he added.
“As we look to further expand the capabilities and capacity of our technology organization, Thessaloniki offers what we are looking for: a large and growing pool of technology talent, proximity to the important markets across Europe where we operate and a welcoming business environment,” commented Shekar Pannala, vice president, Chubb Group, and global chief information officer.
“To build a strong pipeline for talent, we will be partnering with local technology firms and academic institutions to find candidates who want to join a company with great career growth opportunities and where they will have the ability to make an impact,” Pannala continued.
This new facility will join Chubb Development Centers in the United States, India, and Mexico.
Source: Chubb

Topics
Tech
Chubb
