Miller, the London-based specialist re/insurance broker, announced its further expansion into Asia with the launch of Miller Korea, led by David Kim as head of Korea.
Miller Korea will focus on delivering global specialty expertise in the Korean market via a dedicated team of specialist insurance and reinsurance brokers.
Kim brings both a wealth of industry experience and local-market knowledge of Korea. Over the past 25 years, he has served in a range of leadership positions across the insurance sector, including as CEO of Marsh Korea, having also established Johnson and Higgins Korea which was subsequently acquired by Marsh. Prior to this, he worked for 10 years in the investment industry, including at Morgan Stanley in Japan.
Kim will be joined by a number of hires, including key executives Andrew Kim, Youngkum Yoon and Tae Hoon Kim.
The launch of Miller Korea in Seoul marks another significant step in Miller’s expansion across Asia, including its acquisition of Japanese broker Lead Insurance Services in 2022, and the recent hire of Tokinori Kono and Satoshi Watanabe to build out an expanded set of product capabilities for Miller in Japan.
The launch also underscores Miller’s broader international growth ambitions, having announced the acquisition of Madrid-based commercial insurance and reinsurance broker Bruzon and Swiss reinsurance capital advisory firm 4809 Brokers in 2024, Miller said.
“Today’s announcement further demonstrates Miller’s commitment to the Asian market, which remains a cornerstone of our ambitious international growth objectives,” commented Ron Whyte, head of Asia at Miller. “David is highly respected and well-known in the Korean insurance market, and I can think of no-one better qualified to lead Miller’s push into the region as we continue to expand the scope and reach of our market-leading specialist capabilities.”
“Having worked in Korea for over 20 years, I know there is a huge opportunity and I am looking forward to working with the team to grow our presence in the region,” said David Kim, head of Korea at Miller.
Miller is an independent specialist re/insurance broking firm with more than 1000 people across its UK and international operations. It is majority owned by GIC, a leading global investment firm, established in 1981 to secure Singapore’s financial future.
Source: Miller

Topics
Agencies
