This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Marsh Spain and Markel International.
A summary of these new announcements follows here.
Marsh Promotes Trueba to CEO of Marsh Spain
Marsh, the insurance broker and risk adviser, announced the appointment of Pablo Trueba as CEO of Marsh Spain, effective July 1. Trueba will report to Siegmund Fahrig, CEO, Continental Europe, Marsh, and will join Marsh’s Continental Europe Executive Committee.
Trueba brings more than 20 years of experience to his new role. He is currently Corporate & Sales Leader, Marsh Spain, a role he took up in 2018, having previously led Marsh risk management and multinational businesses in Barcelona.
Alvaro Milans del Bosch, currently CEO of Marsh Iberia, will continue in his role of chairman of Marsh Spain and chief country officer of Marsh McLennan. Rodrigo Simões de Almeida will also continue as CEO of Marsh and Mercer Portugal and will join Marsh’s Continental Europe Executive Committee.
Markel Int’l Appoints Arch’s Dressler as Head of Warranty and Indemnity
Markel International, a subsidiary of Markel Corp., has appointed Bryan Dressler as head of warranty and indemnity (W&I) for its professional and financial risk (PFR) division.
Based at Markel’s London office, Dressler will report to David Sawyer, divisional managing director of PFR at Markel International, where he will be responsible for building out a dedicated W&I team, which will focus on SMEs domiciled in the UK and European Economic Area (EEA) with equity values up to $300 million.
Dressler will also play a crucial part in growing Markel’s W&I footprint and contributing towards the organization’s goal of underwriting up to $30 million gross written premium (GWP) in this area by 2025.
Prior to joining Markel, Dressler was assistant vice president for transactional risk insurance products at Arch Insurance. Prior to this position, he spent five years with JLT Speciality Ltd., where he led on the company’s W&I, tax liability, and contingent liability placements both in London and the United States.
“Markel International’s wholesale division has been supporting coverholders in the W&I market since 2014 and manages a portfolio of circa $75 million,” commented Sawyer.
“With the wealth of knowledge and experience that we’ve gathered in these eight years, now feels like the perfect time to build out an in-house offering, and with Bryan onboard, we have a market-leading individual to execute this plan.”
“Bryan has a number of years’ experience as an underwriter and broker, with a strong track record in managing in-house insurance offerings. With his cross-functional skillset, we are confident that he will be able to deliver a sustainable long-term offering for customers in the W&I market,” Sawyer added.