This edition of International People Moves details appointments at program manager Accredited UK & Europe and insurance broker Aon.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Accredited Taps SCOR’s McMurdo to Lead Its UK and European Operations
Accredited Insurance Program Management, the global program manager, announced the appointment of Stuart McMurdo as president of Accredited UK & Europe.
In this role, McMurdo will be responsible for leading Accredited’s operations across the UK and Europe. He will also become CEO of Accredited’s regulated entities, upon receipt of relevant regulatory approvals.
McMurdo is a highly experienced industry leader, having most recently been CEO of SCOR’s global reinsurance business. While at SCOR, he held a number of senior roles, including regional head of SCOR P&C for EMEA and CEO of SCOR UK and the SCOR Syndicate at Lloyd’s. Prior to SCOR, McMurdo served as head of Reinsurance for Santam, one of South Africa’s largest insurers, and has held roles with Hannover Re, Glenrand MIB and Standard Bank.
McMurdo starts his new role at Accredited on Oct. 1, and will report to CEO William Spiegel. He will be based in Accredited’s London office.
McMurdo appointment follows the hiring of Grace Meek as president of Accredited America earlier this year, based in Accredited’s New York office.
In June, Accredited was acquired by Onex Partners, the Toronto-based private equity company. Accredited was formerly owned by R&Q Insurance Holdings Ltd., which is now being liquidated in Bermuda.
Aon Promotes Barcock to Lead Aviation Reinsurance, Stavridis Appointed to Board
Insurance broker Aon plc named Ollie Barcock as leader of aviation reinsurance for Global ReSpecialty. In a separate appointment, Aon appointed Admiral James Stavridis to its Board of Directors.
In an announcement issued on Aug. 7, Aon said Barcock joined the company in 2015 and has spent nearly a decade working within Aon’s aviation reinsurance practice, most recently as a senior broker. His new role is effective immediately.
Reporting to Richard Wheeler, co-leader of Global ReSpecialty, Barcock will support the delivery of capital, customized data and analytics, and consultancy services to the firm’s aviation reinsurance clients, thereby continuing to help them navigate what has been a challenging period of change and dislocation for the aviation sector.
He will also collaborate with Aon’s Strategy and Technology Group, Capital Advisory and MGA teams to bring the latest solutions and expertise to clients, in order to shape better business decisions and drive their profitable growth objectives.
In a separate announcement on Aug. 9, Aon said it has appointed Admiral James Stavridis to its Board of Directors, effective Aug. 15.
Stavridis is currently partner and vice chair, Global Affairs of Carlyle, a global investment firm, a position he has held since 2018. He is a former member of the US Navy, serving from 1976 to 2013 and rising to the rank of four-star admiral in 2009.
His commands included four years as the 16th supreme allied commander at NATO, where he oversaw operations in Afghanistan, Libya, Syria, the Balkans, and counter piracy off the coast of Africa, as well as approximately three years commanding the U.S. Southern Command in Miami, charged with military operations throughout Latin America.
Following his military career, he served as dean of The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University from 2013 to 2018. Stavridis serves as chair of the board of trustees of the Rockefeller Foundation, a member of the board of directors of Fortinet, Inc., a cybersecurity company, and as a director of several private companies and non-profit organizations. He previously served as a board member of American Water Works Co. Inc., a publicly traded water utility company, and as a director of the Neuberger Berman Funds.

Topics
Europe
Aviation
Aon
