Super Typhoon Man-yi battered parts of the Philippines with powerful winds and intense rains as it made its way across the main island on Sunday.
Man-yi, known locally as Pepito, made landfall over the coastal Aurora province on Sunday after hitting the island province of Catanduanes on Saturday night. It maintained top sustained winds of 185 kilometers (115 miles) per hour, according to the weather bureau’s latest notice.
Man-yi still threatens to bring typhoon-force winds and heavy rains to eastern and northern parts of Luzon, and may weaken as it crosses the main island and eventually exit the landmass Sunday night or early Monday. The second-lowest wind signal was hoisted over the Manila capital region.
The national government said it will let local officials decide if government offices and schools need to shut on Monday.
Super Typhoon “Pepito” rips off roofs in Baler, Aurora due to strong winds. Locals describe it as the strongest storm in years. ( Video courtesy of JayR Ontong ) @gmanews pic.twitter.com/hjPjuX2PNz
— JP Soriano (@jpsoriano) November 17, 2024
The super typhoon destroyed houses, tore roofs off buildings and toppled trees and power lines in Aurora and Catanduanes, based on local media reports. Nearly half a million people were moved to safer ground, according to the Inquirer.
The Southeast Asian nation is among the most prone to climate change-related weather events, and gets hit by an average of 20 typhoons annually. Economic growth slowed last quarter as storms affected agriculture and tourism.
Photograph: Large waves break along a seawall in Legaspi City, Albay province on Nov. 16, 2024. Photo credit: Charism Sayat/AFP/Getty Images

Topics
Catastrophe
Natural Disasters
