Lockton Caribbean & Central America (CCA) announced the launch of the insurance broking industry’s first Entertainment & Sports practice focusing exclusively on the region.
The new practice within Lockton CCA – the Miami-based wholesale insurance and reinsurance operation focused on the region, within Lockton’s Latin America and Caribbean Insurance Services Series (LACIS) – will provide athletes and entertainers with a footprint in the Caribbean and Central America, offering solutions for a variety of exposures. These include first-party risks such as high-value homes, private aircrafts and yachts; business interruption, including event cancellation or non-appearance; bespoke liability and contract review; personal accident and critical illness; and financial and professional exposures.
Lockton Associates will also provide policy analysis, legal review, loss control and safety advice, and claims advocacy.
The new Entertainment & Sports practice will be led by Giuliano Montano and Antonia Martinez and overseen by Lockton CCA CEO Julian Pratt, all of whom have significant experience in the placement of insurance products designed for the entertainment and sports industry in the region. The practice will work closely with Lockton’s Gaming, Entertainment & Sports and Contingency practices.
Lockton CCA has historically served many high-profile local and international entertainers and athletes with exposures within the region on behalf of local independent brokers and insurance companies. The new practice, working as a wholesaler, will bring new and innovative solutions to brokers in the region whose clients have entertainment and sports exposures.
“For years the many entertainers and professional athletes who have toured, trained, or lived in the Caribbean and Central America have been looking for tailored advice for their unique risks,” Martinez said. “Lockton CCA is excited to help deliver outside-the-box thinking and problem-solving to help these clients manage risk and succeed.”
Source: Lockton