This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Lloyd’s and Ryan Re.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Lloyd’s Promotes Cliff to CFO, Succeeding Keese
Lloyd’s, the insurance and reinsurance marketplace, announced the appointment of Alexandra Cliff as its chief financial officer (CFO), effective May 1, 2025.
Following a long-established succession plan, Cliff will succeed Burkhard Keese, who leaves Lloyd’s to focus on investment roles in the German insurance market.
Cliff joined Lloyd’s as deputy CFO in November 2022 and currently serves on Lloyd’s Executive Committee. She has over 20 years of experience in the insurance industry, having held senior finance roles in insurance and broking firms including Direct Line Group, StarStone, and AJ Gallagher. Cliff is a chartered accountant and spent eight years at PwC in both London and the US. Her new appointment is subject to regulatory approval.
Keese joined Lloyd’s in 2019 and during his time as CFO he has been at the forefront of the significant performance turnaround of the Lloyd’s market, and in the strengthening of its balance sheet, recognized by S&P Global and AM Best accrediting Lloyd’s with the highest financial strength ratings in its history. He has also advanced Lloyd’s position as an attractive and accessible market for global investors to place their capital through the risk transfer vehicles London Bridge 1 and 2.
Keese will remain a strategic advisor to Lloyd’s and will focus on the development of London Bridge 2.
“Since joining Lloyd’s as deputy CFO, Alex has played a vital role in achieving our enhanced financial strength, including recent ratings upgrades, building our investment proposition and transforming market reporting. She is a well-respected member of the Executive Committee, and I have no doubt she will continue to deliver against our strategic priorities as CFO,” commented John Neal, Lloyd’s CEO, who also is lleaving the market this year to take on the role of Aon’s global CEO of Reinsurance and chairman of Climate Solutions.
Neal went on to thank Keese “for his work guiding Lloyd’s to some of its best-ever financial results and his execution of the capital proposition, which has made Lloyd’s more resilient than ever.”
Ryan Re Appoints BMS’ Ryan as EVP to Lead Strategic Business Development
Ryan Specialty, the Chicago-based international specialty insurance firm, announced that Sean Ryan has joined Ryan Re Underwriting Managers, a managing general underwriter focused on property and casualty treaty reinsurance.
Ryan will serve as executive vice president and lead Ryan Re’s strategic business development.
Ryan has held a variety of senior roles in both reinsurance underwriting and reinsurance broking throughout his career. Previously, he founded and served as president of specialty reinsurance-focused Trean Intermediaries, which was established in 2013 and ultimately acquired in 2021 by BMS, where he assumed the role of deputy CEO of US Reinsurance.
“Sean has both a strong entrepreneurial spirit and an impressive network of relationships throughout the industry. Additionally, before his role as an intermediary, he held key underwriting roles in both treaty and facultative businesses that supported a wide range of clients,” commented Ryan Re President & CEO Emil Issavi.

Topics
Excess Surplus
Lloyd's
