This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Arch Reinsurance and DUAL France.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Arch Reinsurance Promotes 3 Senior Leaders: Halgan, Hardy Pickering and Pun
Arch Reinsurance Group announced the promotions of three senior executives, effective April 1: Jerome Halgan, Vanessa Hardy Pickering and Lester Pun.
Details of the promotions are as follows:
DUAL France Taps Déal From Everest France as Managing Director
DUAL Europe announced the appointment of Guillaume Déal as managing director, DUAL France, reporting to Olaf Jonda, CEO, DUAL Europe.
DUAL said his appointment reflects the company’s strategy to attract top industry talent, and further strengthens its French leadership team following the appointment of Gwenaël Hervé as chair in December 2023.
Déal, who is based in Paris, joins DUAL from Everest where he held a variety of senior roles, most recently as head of Financial Lines, Everest France. Prior to this he was managing director Continental Europe, Navigators, and chief underwriting officer at CAMCA, the insurance subsidiary of Crédit Agricole Group.
Déal’s role will be to lead DUAL France’s growth trajectory and to solidify its position in the French market.
DUAL France offers financial lines, professional indemnity, cyber, construction all risks, title and M&A insurance solutions for medium-sized and large companies, and accident & health.
The specialist underwriting arm of Howden Group, DUAL Group was launched in 1998 and is now one of the world’s largest international underwriting agencies with US$3.5 billion of GWP. The company has more than 1,600 people in 21 countries across the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific, and is one of Lloyd’s’ largest international coverholders. DUAL Europe operates from 17 locations in 13 countries.

Topics
Talent
Reinsurance
Leadership
Human Resources
