This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Allianz Commercial and Chubb.
A summary of the new hires follows here.
Allianz Commercial Promotes Warren-Upham to Lead London Mkt Distribution
Allianz announced Alastair Warren-Upham has been appointed head of Distribution, London, Allianz Commercial in the UK, effective Sept. 1.
The newly created role will assume responsibility for both the large-corporate & specialty, and the mid-corp distribution teams in London – providing simplicity for clients and brokers with a single point of contact across these segments. It will be an essential part of the wider distribution function that sits across all the trading elements of the newly integrated Allianz Commercial, which encompasses large-corp, specialty, mid-corp, digital/SME and engineering inspection.
Warren-Upham first joined Allianz on the graduate management program in 2009. Since then, he has held various roles in underwriting, sales and market management. Most notably he was a key account manager in London, a strategic account manager, and London market manager (commercial branch manager) since 2019.
Chubb Appoints Kopp to Lead Far East Region, Mo for Korea
Chubb Ltd. announced that Edward Kopp has been appointed regional president, Far East. Currently, Kopp serves as country president of Chubb Korea. In his new role, Kopp will have overall responsibility for the management and business results for all of Chubb’s general insurance operations in Japan.
Kopp will be succeeded as country president of Chubb Korea by Janice (Jae-Kyung) Mo, who currently serves as senior vice president for Property & Casualty, Claims and Corporate Strategy, for the business. Mo will have responsibility for the overall performance of Chubb in Korea.
Kopp will report to Juan Luis Ortega, executive vice president, Chubb Group, and president, Overseas General Insurance, the company’s general insurance operations in 51 countries and territories outside North America. Kopp succeeds Diego Sosa who, as previously announced, was named country president, Chubb Mexico, and general manager, Chubb Seguros Mexico.
Mo will succeed Kopp and report to Paul McNamee, regional president, Asia Pacific.
Both appointments, which are subject to notification to local regulatory authorities, are expected to be effective on Sept. 1.
Biographies
Edward Kopp has more than 25 years of experience in insurance and finance. Prior to serving as country president of Korea, he was senior vice president, head of Accident & Health, Asia Pacific. Since joining Chubb in 2012, he also has served as deputy country president & chief operating officer for Chubb in Korea and country president for Chubb in Thailand. Before joining Chubb, he was deputy president and chief operations officer, Korea, for HSBC Insurance at Hana HSBC Life Insurance, a joint venture between HSBC Insurance and Hana Financial Group. He has also held senior management positions for Cigna in Hong Kong and Korea. He began his career at Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu in the U.S.
Kopp holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Business Administration from La Salle University in Philadelphia, Pa.
Janice (Jae-Kyung) Mo has more than 30 years of experience in financial services. She joined Chubb in 2014 as head of Property & Casualty and Agency Distribution Management. Earlier in her career, she worked at AIG for 10 years, most recently as head of Commercial Insurance for Korea. Her banking experience includes a decade at Deutsche Bank, most recently as vice president, Global Banking in Korea.
Mo holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Business Administration and Management from the University of Southern California.

Topics
Commercial Lines
London
Allianz
Chubb
