Acrisure, the Grand Rapids, Michigan-based insurance broker and fintech specialist, announced it has completed two acquisitions, expanding its southern England region, which is managed by Sutton Winson, Acrisure’s largest UK acquisition to date.
Financial details of the two deals were not disclosed.
Financial and Credit Insurance Services Ltd. (FinCred) is a Sevenoaks, Kent-based specialist credit insurance broker and surety bond expert with a worldwide book of business. Acrisure said the acquisition will further enhance Acrisure and Sutton Winson’s collective capabilities across the United Kingdom. Hannah Lyon-Wall, managing director of Fincred, spent more than six years at Markel International prior to taking over the family-owned business in 2016.
Acrisure also purchased Global Broking Solutions (GBS) in a deal that saw the company acquire a client base spanning all parts of Kent and East Sussex. “The strategic move compliments the acquisition of FinCred as Acrisure and Sutton Winson look to form three established office locations in London, East Sussex and now Kent,” Acrisure said.
“We are excited to continue our expansion in southern England with these two acquisitions, led by the world-class Sutton Winson team. Hannah is a proven leader with a phenomenal track record and a huge future in the industry. We are genuinely delighted to welcome her and the rest of the team onboard,” commented Mark McIlquham, president, Acrisure UK Retail.
“We are thrilled with the acquisitions of FinCred and GBS, and this is the beginning of something special we are building with Acrisure in the south. Acrisure will continue to support us in acquiring businesses with whom we can culturally align,” according to Gareth Roberts, managing director, Sutton Winson. “We now control close to £70 million GWP and expect that figure to surpass £100 million within the next two years through a combination of organic and inorganic growth.”
“My family and I have known Sutton Winson for years, and when we decided the time was right to sell and become part of a larger organisation, there was only one business we even considered partnering with,” said Lyon-Wall. “We are incredibly specialist in our field and know that Acrisure’s global presence will have a massively beneficial impact on our future growth trajectory.”
In the last nine years, Acrisure has grown in revenue from $38 million to $4.4 billion and today employs over 17,000 colleagues in over 20 countries.
Source: Acrisure