This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Howden Tiger and Markel.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Howden Tiger Taps Byler From Carpenter to Lead US Casualty Division
Howden Tiger, the reinsurance and capital advisory arm of Howden Group, announced that Carrie Byler has joined the company’s growing Global Casualty Division.
As managing director, head of US General Casualty, Byler will focus on the growth of casualty as a core product and market differentiator for Howden Tiger. She is based in New York City.
Byler’s role will include leadership of the US General Casualty practice, senior account responsibilities involving casualty and professional lines, and business development, responding to developing market conditions and client needs. She reports to Josh Everdell, global head of Casualty.
Previously a senior executive at Guy Carpenter, Byler brings extensive North American casualty market experience to Howden’s growing Casualty Reinsurance team.
Howden Tiger has been building its US Casualty practice over the last 18 months to develop an industry leading offering. Managing director hires into Howden Tiger US Casualty include:
The new hires join Managing Directors Jim Walsh and Garrick Smith, whose appointments in casualty and professional lines were previously announced.
Markel Promotes Atkin to Head of Bloodstock for London Markets
Markel, the insurance operations within Markel Group Inc., has appointed Oliver Atkin to head of Bloodstock in London, effective immediately.
Atkin will lead the Bloodstock team in London by setting the Bloodstock growth strategy as well as identifying and developing innovative products, to support brokers and customers in the bloodstock space. Alongside those duties, he’ll continue building on new and existing broker relationships, while maintaining high service levels which are valued by Markel’s broker partners and their policyholders.
Atkin joined Markel as a Bloodstock underwriter over six years ago, during which time he has demonstrated exceptional leadership and portfolio management skills, all of which led to his recent appointment. In his new post, he will continue operating from Markel’s London office, reporting to Juliet Redfern, divisional managing director of Equine and Livestock at Markel International in London and France.
Redfern said that Atkin has an interest in National Hunt racing and “is developing new solutions for this under-insured market sector – with his knowledge and expertise on this subject being key to developing these policies.”

Topics
USA
London
Casualty
