This edition of International People Moves details appointments at the Howden MGA DUAL and at the broker Howden Germany.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
DUAL Appoints McGinn From Allianz as UK CEO
DUAL, the specialist underwriting arm of Howden Group Holdings, announced the appointment of Simon McGinn as CEO of its UK business, subject to regulatory approval.
McGinn joins DUAL from global insurer Allianz having held several roles there over 19 years, most recently as CEO Allianz Commercial, Allianz UK.
McGinn will join DUAL on Jan. 1, 2024 and will report to Richard Clapham, CEO, DUAL Group.
“We are delighted to welcome Simon to DUAL. Attracting someone of Simon’s calibre to head our UK leadership team is a strong endorsement of the potential we have to grow our already significant UK business,” commented Clapham.
“Simon’s leadership skills and proven expertise makes him the perfect person to lead our UK business going forward. He brings an exceptional knowledge of the UK insurance landscape, its evolving trends and the emerging opportunities they present. Simon’s vision will see us invest further in the people, technology and data needed to provide our brokers and their clients with expertly tailored products combined with an exceptional digitally enabled service,” he added.
Established in 1998, DUAL today has over 1,400 people in 21 countries across the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific, and is one of Lloyd’s’ largest international coverholders.
Howden Germany Taps Aon’s Breeck to Lead New Large Corporate Clients Unit
Howden Germany announced it has appointed Reiner Breeck as managing director, Large Corporate Clients, as it continues to drive growth in the large corporate sector and launches a new division to support this strategy.
With more than three decades of experience in all major areas of the insurance industry, Breeck comes to Howden after 10 years at Aon. He joined Aon Germany in 2013 and held the role of deputy chief broking officer and chief innovation officer. Prior to this, he held management positions with international insurers. He started his career in 1991 in the reinsurance division of the Gothaer Group, where he was most recently head of Liability Industry (Operations/Claims).
Breeck, joins Howden from Aon and has more than three decades of experience in all major areas of the insurance industry.
In his role Breeck will work with Howden’s existing resources to expand the service and support provided to large corporations. The focus will be on both insurance solutions and optimizing the processes required to deliver them. In addition, Breeck will work with a specialized team to make Howden’s growing worldwide network even more accessible to German multinational companies.
In addition to his new role as managing director of Large Corporate Clients, Breeck will assume operational responsibility for Howden Markets at Howden Germany. Howden Markets will specifically look after the broker’s insurer relationships.
“I am very pleased to welcome Rainer Breeck, one of the most distinguished and competent managers in the insurance industry in this country, to our team. He has extensive experience and knows the needs of large companies along the insurance value chain better than anyone else,” commented Karl-Heinz Holz, designated CEO of Howden Deutschland AG.
“Rainer will bundle our strengths in this core segment, further develop the business with large corporates and drive our growth. Our ability to attract and retain the industry’s top talent enables us to further enhance our capabilities and provide value-added services to our clients,” Holz added.
Founded in 1994, Howden Group operates in 50 countries across Europe, Africa, Asia, the Middle East, Latin America, the USA, Australia and New Zealand, employing 15,000 people and handling $30bn of premium on behalf of clients.

Topics
Aon
Allianz
Germany
