This edition of International People Moves details appointments at SCOR and Aon Reinsurance Solutions.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Former MS Amlin Exec Beazley Appointed CEO of SCOR UK, SCOR Syndicate
SCOR announced the appointment of Chris Beazley as CEO of SCOR UK and the SCOR Syndicate, effective Sept. 20, 2022, subject to regulatory approval. Beazley takes over the role from Stuart McMurdo, who was appointed as CEO of Reinsurance following the announcement in June that Michel Blanc will retire with effect from January 2023.
Based in London, Beazley will report to Catherine Fassi, regional CEO of EMEA and Canada for P&C business.
Beazley brings more than 20 years of experience to his new role, having worked for underwriting and broking firms in the UK, Switzerland, Singapore and the U.S.
Having started his career with Willis, Beazley joined MS Amlin in 2007, where he held a number of leadership roles across the insurance and reinsurance businesses. Following a two-year secondment as CEO of the London Market Group, he returned to the company in 2018 as CEO of MS Amlin AG.
Beazley is a Chartered Insurer and an Associate of the Chartered Insurance Institute.
“Our UK platform has historically been and will continue to be at the heart of SCOR Specialty Insurance. With SCOR UK and the SCOR Syndicate, our teams can deploy their proven underwriting skills, both on the company market and at Lloyd’s, to optimally serve our clients,” commented Romain Launay, CEO Specialty Insurance and deputy CEO SCOR P&C. “I would like to extend my thanks to them and to Stuart McMurdo for their success during his tenure. Chris is a recognized leader, and we all look forward to writing a new chapter with him.”
Aon Reinsurance Solutions Names Goodman UK President
Aon plc, a leading global professional services firm, named Jeremy Goodman as UK president of Reinsurance Solutions, effective immediately. Goodman will relocate from Singapore to London and will retain his current role of Reinsurance Solutions’ head of global broking.
As UK president, he replaces Nick Frankland, who will now focus fully on his responsibilities as chairman of Aon’s growing Strategy and Technology Group (STG).
In his new role, Goodman will focus on building client relationships, and driving business growth through effective segmentation across clients, products, and geographies.
He will report to Andy Marcell, global CEO of Reinsurance Solutions, and Rupert Moore, UK CEO of Reinsurance Solutions, joining a UK team that has seen significant operational growth and expansion over the past three years, with the hiring of a wide range of new talent.

Topics
Reinsurance
Aon
Mississippi
