This edition of International People Moves details executive changes and appointments at Inver Re, Tokio Marine Kiln and Chubb.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Hearn to Step Down as Inver Re’s CEO
Inver Re, the reinsurance broking subsidiary of Ardonagh Group, announced that CEO Steve Hearn will leave the business this summer.
Hearn joined the business in 2021, following the acquisition of BGC’s insurance assets by Inver Re’s parent company, the Ardonagh Group.
As Inver Re’s CEO, Hearn led the business through its establishment and a period of sustained growth, diversification, bringing together talented reinsurance teams from across Ardonagh and the broader market, the company said in a statement.
Andrew Wallin will lead Inver Re as interim CEO during the ongoing process to appoint a permanent successor.
Inver Re is the largest independent reinsurance broker in Bermuda, with specialist teams across Bermuda, London and the United States spanning treaty and facultative reinsurance, capital solutions and strategic advice.
“Steve has achieved everything he set out to do when he joined us two years ago and more. His legacy is a thriving business known for collaboration and innovative solutions for clients – a much needed specialist in a consolidated market. He leaves with our gratitude for a job superbly well done,” commented Ardonagh Group’s Chief Executive Officer David Ross.
“I’m incredibly proud of the client-centric proposition that Inver Re has become famous for, the talent that has been assembled and the considerable early wins. It has been a privilege to lead this business and its executive team. I wish David Ross, Andy Wallin, my many friends and colleagues continued success as they build a fabulous business,” Hearn said.
Founded in 2021, Inver Re is an independent specialist risk strategy and reinsurance broker based in London, Bermuda, and the U.S.
TMK Taps Munich Re’s Partridge as Cargo U/W in London
Tokio Marine Kiln announced the appointment of Rob Partridge to its marine division as cargo underwriter, effective immediately.
Partridge brings more than 11 years of cargo underwriting experience to TMK. Reporting to Richard Hooks, departmental head of marine & energy, Partridge will be responsible for the oversight and growth of TMK’s cargo portfolio in London. Partridge joins from Munich Re where he held several positions, most recently senior cargo underwriter.
His appointment follows that of Timothy Wills as marine underwriter to TMK’s Lloyd’s Asia syndicate in Singapore last year, both signaling TMK’s appetite and ambition to grow its global marine footprint.
“For some time, TMK has intended to broaden its marine proposition and, with the portfolio now at a sufficiently mature stage, Rob’s joining will be enormously helpful in achieving that ambition, bringing extensive experience across the spectrum of cargo risks,” Hooks said. “He will work in close collaboration with Tim in Singapore, and we are extremely pleased to have secured someone of his stature for this important role.”
Chubb Names Mostert as Country President, South Africa
Chubb announced the promotion of Zelda Mostert, currently chief financial officer South Africa, to the role of country president.
In her new role, Mostert will be responsible for managing the performance, strategy and development of all Chubb’s accident and health, consumer and digital business in South Africa. She will remain based at Chubb’s Sandton office and will report to Mark Roberts, division president, United Kingdom, Ireland and South Africa. The appointment is effective July 1.
Mostert succeeds Gary Jack who is relocating to the UK to take up a new role as regional manager for Chubb’s Midlands & South Region.
Prior to joining Chubb in 2013, Mostert held senior finance and treasury roles at businesses across a variety of sectors in South Africa.
“Over the past decade, Zelda has been very closely involved in the development of our business in South Africa. This makes her perfectly placed to lead Chubb through our next phase of expansion in South Africa as we concentrate on growing our A&H, consumer and digital business there,” Roberts said.
“I would also like to take this opportunity thank Gary for his exceptional leadership since 2015 and wish him every success in his new role with Chubb in the UK.”

Topics
Trucking
London
Chubb
