GCube Names Shimal, Litterick to Underwriting Posts
Renewable energy specialist GCube Underwriting, a member of the Tokio Marine HCC group of companies, has appointed two people to senior positions within the organisation. Josh Shimali, who has been with the business for over a decade, has been promoted to head of onshore underwriting, while Olly Litterick has been recruited as head of London Market underwriting.
Joining the company from Occam Underwriting Limited, Litterick brings with him close to 15 years of underwriting and brokerage experience. He served previously as divisional director at RKH Speciality, renewable energy underwriter at Chaucer Syndicates, and most recently as director of low carbon energy at Occam Underwriting Limited.
Shimali will take on responsibility for GCube’s overall underwriting strategy. Shimali has over a decade of experience in the renewables space, and his time at GCube has seen him build an intricate knowledge of the business and its client base.
The company said the pair will also be contributing to strategic planning and overall underwriting management.
GCube underwrites renewable energy projects in wind, solar, wave, hydro and tidal around the globe.
Amlin Adds Barnes as Head of Marine
Reinsurer MS Amlin Underwriting Limited has appointed Malcolm Barnes as head of marine reinsurance. Barnes will take up his role in September.
With a career spanning more than 35 years in the reinsurance sector, Barnes joins Amlin from Canopius, where he was head of marine treaty. Prior to this, Barnes was divisional director for reinsurance at Amtrust with responsibility for all inwards reinsurance business. Barnes also spent a number of years as vice president at XL Re, as well as Guy Carpenter where he held a variety of business development and broking responsibilities.
RiverStone Names Rocke M&A Head; Saunders Leads Underwriting
RiverStone International, an acquirer and reinsurer of legacy and discontinued insurance business, has made changes in its mergers and acquisitions (M&A) practice.
David Rocke is now group head of M&A. Rocke will continue his role as managing director of RiverStone Insurance Bermuda Limited alongside this appointment in RiverStone International’s growth strategy.
Reporting to David Rocke will be Jamie Saunders, who has been with RiverStone since March as chief underwriting officer. Saunders will be responsible for the day-to-day operations of the group M&A and integration functions, as well as working with Rocke on business development. Saunders brings with him nearly 20 years of experience in legacy insurance and reinsurance with a specific focus on transactions in Bermuda, the U.S. and the UK, most recently in his former role as head of M&A operations and integration at Enstar.
Rocke and Saunders will be based in Bermuda.
Also, David Alexander, former acquisitions and business development director, has been appointed business planning and strategy director. In his new role Alexander will support RiverStone’s financial development using his considerable expertise in insurance restructuring, run-off management and business transformation.
RiverStone International operates in the UK company and Lloyd’s of London markets.

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Underwriting
Mississippi
