NFP, the insurance broking and consulting firm, announced it has acquired Advanced Insurance Consultants Ltd. (AIC), an independent insurance broker based in Hemel Hempstead on the outskirts of London.
As part of the deal, which closed on Dec. 15, the entire AIC team will join NFP. Financial details were not disclosed.
“AIC is well respected by its clients, peers and partners, and has a brilliant team of insurance professionals supporting their operation,” said Matt Pawley, regional managing director, NFP in Europe. “This acquisition will bolster the client base of both organizations and increase our ability to deliver integrated and specialized solutions. AIC will be a great addition to NFP as we help clients tackle their risk mitigation.”
AIC’s specialized expertise includes the agriculture, marine, leisure, vehicle and construction industries. While predominantly a commercial insurance broker, AIC also provides personal insurance for individuals.
NFP said the acquisition will enable it to expand its commercial insurance offering and further develop its client base in the London and the wider South East areas of the UK.
“AIC has enjoyed many successful years by leveraging our strengths, which is a testament to our first-rate, professional employees and ability to serve the diverse needs of our clients,” said Chris Metcalfe, managing director of AIC. “Now we look forward to our next chapter by utilizing the many additional resources that NFP brings, not only across insurance but also within the employee benefits and wealth management space.”
Source: NFP

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
London
