Verlingue, the Quimper, France-based insurance broker and subsidiary of the Adelaïde Group, announced it has acquired ProConseils Solutions, a major player in the insurance brokerage market in French-speaking Switzerland.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
Verlingue said this strategic operation will enable it to strengthen its position in the Swiss market by broadening its range of services and expertise in the field of insurance coverage for businesses, local authorities and medico-social establishments.
Founded in 2003 and headquartered in Morges, Switzerland, ProConseils Solutions has a staff of almost 25 employees with three offices in the Canton of Vaud. ProConseils Solutions works with more than 1,500 companies, nearly 150 local authorities and 30 medico-social establishments.
This acquisition is aligned with Verlingue strategy to reinforce its presence in Europe and expand the territorial coverage of its business. With this acquisition, Verlingue will help the Adelaïde Group achieve its objective of becoming the leading family-owned insurance broker in Europe by 2028.
“The acquisition of ProConseils Solutions marks an important step in our growth strategy in Switzerland and Europe,” commented Benjamin Verlingue, chairman and CEO of the Adelaïde Group. “Joining forces will enable us to provide all our customers – whether in Switzerland or in the other countries in which we operate – an even broader range of expertise and solutions that are increasingly tailored to their needs.”
“Becoming part of Verlingue and the Adelaïde Group, is a real opportunity for our customers and our staff. We will be able to provide even better services and draw on the group’s technical expertise and international dimension,” according to Alain Bornand and Joseph Gelsomino, co-founders of ProConseils Solutions, in a joint statement.
“It will also enable us to continue to develop ProConseils Solutions in French-speaking Switzerland, both through our existing teams and through possible acquisitions. ProConseils Solutions is entering a new phase in its evolution and we are looking forward to sharing this with our customers, partners and staff,” they said.
About Verlingue
Specializing in business protection, Verlingue has offices in France, Portugal, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and Italy. The company employs 1,500 people, 550 of whom are based outside France.
Source: Verlingue

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
