This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Chubb Tempest Re, Argenta Syndicate Management Ltd., and Mosaic Insurance.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Ashley Promoted to Division President of Chubb Tempest Re Int’l, Succeeding Roberts
Chubb Tempest Re, the reinsurance business of Chubb, announced that Wayne Ashley has been appointed division president, Chubb Tempest Re International. Currently, he serves as deputy head of the business. In his new role, Ashley will be responsible for the overall management and development of Chubb Tempest Re’s international property and casualty reinsurance business.
The appointment, which is subject to regulatory approval, is expected to be effective on April 1. Ashley will report to Jim Wixtead, senior vice president, Chubb Group, and president of Chubb Tempest Re. Ashley succeeds Stephen Roberts, who is retiring from the company at the end of April.
Ashley has nearly 30 years of experience in the insurance industry. He joined Chubb Tempest Re Bermuda in 2006 as assistant vice president, International, and was promoted to vice president in 2009 and senior vice president in 2012. Ashley relocated to London in 2017 and moved into the deputy role responsible for all international property lines of business in 2019. Prior to Chubb, he was with Alea London, where he underwrote the international treaty portfolio. He began his career in London at Zurich Re in 1994 in the Reinsurance Treaty unit.
“Wayne is a seasoned reinsurance executive who has had leadership roles at Chubb Tempest Re for more than 15 years. Having served as deputy head of our international P&C reinsurance business, he is well positioned to lead as division president,” commented Wixtead.
“We are extremely grateful for Steve’s years of service and the invaluable leadership he has provided to our reinsurance operation,” Wixtead added. “He has played an important role in building our reinsurance company’s international presence. We wish him all the very best in his retirement.”
Argenta Hires TMK’s Groves as Head of Cyber
Argenta Syndicate Management Ltd. (ASML), a subsidiary of Argenta Holdings Ltd., announced the appointment of Jonny Groves as head of cyber, effective immediately. Based in London, Groves will report to Barney Smythe, deputy active underwriter and head of specialty. In his new role, Groves will be responsible for leading Argenta’s global cyber business while overseeing its underwriting and business development.
Groves joins ASML from Tokio Marine Kiln where, since 2017, he was a cyber underwriter, leading the team for delegated authority business. Groves brings with him almost 10 years of delegated authority experience, having started his insurance career at Hardy Underwriting Agencies before moving to RJ Kiln (now Tokio Marine Kiln).
“Under Jonny’s leadership we will be in the position to strengthen our cyber presence in the London market. As an experienced industry professional, his extensive cyber insurance expertise and broader risk knowledge make him well-placed to lead our cyber business in the UK and beyond and I am very pleased to welcome him to the team,” commented Smythe.
“The pandemic triggered an enduring shift in the way businesses operate, which is pushing the demand for commercial cyber cover,” said Ian Burford, director of underwriting and active underwriter of Argenta Syndicate Management Ltd.’s Syndicate 2121 and SPA 6134. “Jonny brings a wealth of experience and a significant track record that aligns perfectly with our strategy. His appointment underpins our long-term commitment to the cyber market, and I am delighted to welcome Jonny to our team.”
Argenta Holdings Ltd., a subsidiary of Hannover Re, is the parent company of ASML and of Argenta Private Capital Ltd., which provides investor capacity to the Lloyd’s market of £3.8 billion for 2023. ASML is a Lloyd’s authorized managing agency, housing the Argenta Group’s underwriting operations, Argenta Syndicate 2121 and SPA 6134.
Mosaic Appoints Chief People Officer to Member of Leadership Team
Strategic human resources executive Claire Eeles has joined Mosaic Insurance as the specialty insurer continues its growth of geographies and talent.
Based in London, Eeles has been appointed chief people officer and a member of the company’s leadership team.
Eeles is a human-resources professional with more than 20 years’ experience in the financial services sector. Her role at Mosaic encompasses overall strategic responsibility for Mosaic’s people, talent, and culture.
She has worked in international roles for several companies, including XL Capital, Brit Insurance, WTW, and AJ Gallagher. Most recently, she was global human resources director for Gallagher Re (previously Willis Re), and, prior, HR director for people and change aspects of an operational improvement program at WTW. She began her career as a consultant at Accenture.
“We are excited about adding Claire to Mosaic’s leadership team—it’s a strong reflection of Mosaic’s overall expansion and the importance we place on our people agenda,” said Co-CEO Mitch Blaser. “We continually look to add high-quality talent as we move forward on our vision, and Claire’s wealth of industry expertise and deep knowledge of HR, people, and culture will help inform our talent strategies and continue our global culture-building.”
Launched in February 2021, Mosaic currently has 125 employees across seven offices and seven lines of business—including cyber, transactional liability, political risk, political violence, environmental liability, professional liability, and financial institutions.

Topics
Cyber
Liability
Chubb
