Heinz Arabia has announced the launch of the world’s first-ever ketchup insurance policy. The new insurance coverage aims to alleviate the stress and inconvenience of everyday ketchup spills, splatters and splotches.
Inspired by countless social media posts showcasing ketchup-related accidents, Heinz Arabia has developed a comprehensive insurance and benefits package covering 57 different types of claims for those “who believe that Heinz always worth the risk,” the company said.
Currently Heinz Ketchup Insurance is only available in the UAE, said a company representative, who noted that Heinz Arabia is managing the insurance project internally and has partnered with an employee benefits app called MyBenefits where customers can claim their “rewards.”
“Here at Heinz, we know our fans’ love for our ketchup can sometimes be, well, a bit over the top. Our research tells us that 48% of them have ketchup accidents all the time, but 91% swear their love for Heinz makes it totally worth it. That’s why we’re rolling out ketchup insurance – to turn messy moments into pure joy and convenience for our die-hard fans, letting them enjoy their ketchup incidents worry-free,” commented Passant El Ghannam, head of Marketing at Kraft Heinz MEA.
From stains on carpets and clothing to splatters on your pet, ceiling, or sofa, the insurance is designed to provide swift and hassle-free compensation to affected individuals, said the company.
Heinz-lovers in the UAE will have the opportunity to redeem compensation through a range of rewards, including home cleaning services, laundry assistance, handyman services, and even indulgent spa treatments!
Individuals who have experienced ketchup-related incidents matching any of the 57 claims covered by the insurance can apply via Heinz Arabia’s website, social media channels using the hashtag #HeinzKetchupInsurance.
Source: Heinz Arabia