This edition of International People Moves details appointments at the re/insurance group Aventum, the broker Aon, and insurer Chubb.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Aventum Promotes Eldridge to MD
Aventum, the London-based re/insurance group that operates across both the underwriting and broking sectors, announces that John Eldridge has been promoted to managing director of Aventum.
In this newly created position, Eldridge will be responsible for the day-to-day operation of the business, with a particular focus on coordinating the group’s central functions, to support the continued global expansion of its re/insurance managing general agent (MGA), Rokstone, and specialty broking platform, Consilium.
Eldridge was previously chief commercial officer for the group, having joined the business in 2020. Before joining Aventum, he held a variety of leadership roles over a 15-year period, including managing director of Canopius UK Specialty, managing director of Coleman Insurance Brokers, and head of Operations at HSBC Insurance Brokers.
The promotion comes after two further C-Suite appointments made last year at Aventum: Robert Moorehead-Lane, formally chief risk officer of Aspen Insurance Group, was appointed CRO, and Hassani Jess, previously chief technology officer of Simply Business, was appointed CTO for the Aventum Group.
Aventum is one of the fastest growing independent specialty insurance groups, trading more than US$1.5 billion GWP annually across 17 global offices. In just the last 24 months multiple first division carriers have been attracted to the group and several high-profile names have been inspired to join Aventum on its journey, taking the global headcount to approximately 500. Through its international (Re)Insurance Broking arm Consilium, and its global MGA operation, Rokstone, it offers clients a range of specialist and niche solutions in all lines of property/casualty re/insurance globally.
Aon Names Dando as Strategy and Technology Group EMEA Leader
Insurance broker Aon plc announced that Steve Dando has been named chief executive officer of EMEA for Aon’s Strategy and Technology Group.
Based in London, Dando reports to Sherif Zakhary, chief executive officer of Aon’s Strategy and Technology Group. He joins from broker Ardonagh Specialty, where he was head of markets and distribution, having previously held senior positions at professional services firms Marsh McLennan and Howden.
In his new role, Dando will lead strategy and development across the EMEA region, delivering software and consulting services that shape better decisions for clients via actionable, executable and holistic solutions.
Chubb Taps WTW’s Källs as Country Mgr for Sweden, Finland
Chubb announced the appointment of Anna Källs as country manager for Sweden and Finland, effective from Feb. 1. In her new role Källs will be responsible for Chubb’s property/casualty, and accident and health operations across Sweden and Finland.
Källs joins Chubb from Willis Towers Watson (WTW) where she was head of Large & Complex Business and Practice Leader for Liability since 2022. She will be based in Stockholm and will report to Paul Woodgate, Regional Executive Officer, Northern Region.
She succeeds Margaretha Mo who has left the business to pursue other opportunities.
Källs has almost two decades of experience in the insurance industry. Starting out as an intern at Sweden’s If Insurance in 2007, she held a variety of roles at the carrier including key account manager, Affinity, and head of Underwriting for commercial business, before joining WTW in 2019. She has a master’s degree in Commercial and Business Law from Linköping University in Sweden.

Topics
Tech
Maryland
Aon
Chubb
Willis Towers Watson
