Canopius Restructures Global Underwriting Operations With Senior Appointments
Canopius Group, the London-based global specialty re/insurer, has reorganized its global underwriting operations into four key areas: specialty, short tail, reinsurance and casualty.
As part of the reorganization, each of Canopius’s business units – the UK, U.S. & Bermuda, and APAC – are now more empowered with each gaining its own executive team, allowing the business unit to better focus on serving its brokers and customers, the company said.
“We have made changes to the structure of our business to create a better balance between our global product offering and our regional business units,” commented Neil Robertson, Canopius group chief executive officer (CEO). “This will also enhance our strength – both from a performance and operational perspective – and creates benefits for all stakeholders, and most specifically our customers.”
Sarah Willmont has been promoted to UK CEO and Alois Rouffiac to UK chief underwriting officer (CUO). Lisa Davis remains CEO, U.S. & Bermuda, with a CUO for that region to be announced in due course.
Mark Newman also remains as CEO of Canopius APAC, with Yann Marmonier promoted to APAC CUO.
Canopius’s claims function will now also be represented on both the group and regional executive teams and will reflect the global underwriting structure in its design.
The restructure also leads to the creation of new leadership roles in underwriting, three of which have been filled internally, underlining Canopius’s commitment to enabling talent from within its business.
Charles Craigs has been promoted to group head of Reinsurance, Rachel Sabbarton to group jead of Short Tail, and Bernie de Haldevang, group head of Specialty. A group head of Casualty will be announced in due course.

Topics
Underwriting
