London market reform technology specialist Ebix Europe announced the launch of its new platform, ExposureHub, for re/insurance exposure management.
Ebix describes ExposureHub as a versatile and geospatially rich platform, powered by state-of-the-art technology and methodologies, which provides fast and accurate results and insights that support data-driven risk management decisions while ensuring profitable underwriting.
“Offering exceptional processing speeds even with huge data volumes, along with interactive global map displays, the platform is module-based and fully configurable, implying that each client and each user gets to use a tool that works best for them,” said the company. The platform layout aims to draw the user into their exposure data – making it easier to identify and act on insights, opportunities and outliers.
ExposureHub allows insurance practitioners to obtain their data through a variety of input mechanisms, ranging from tried and tested data import files to integration with other systems used across the market, while the robust and intuitive nature of the platform allows both experienced exposure managers and non-expert users to navigate through the process seamlessly and efficiently.
“ExposureHub is our exciting new platform that puts control of data back into the hands of the user. It’s more than an innovative solution and is something that market practitioners will benefit from in their day-to-day insurance transactions – a true, instinctive data tool that lifts exposure management to a new level,” commented Guy Williams, Ebix Europe Exposure Management consultant.
“We are committed to working with the market to understand how ExposureHub can be developed further to help insurers, reinsurers and MGAs harness the power of data to substantially enhance their exposure management capabilities and drive profitable data-driven underwriting,” he added.
“We are actively working with third-party-providers to seamlessly connect complementary solutions with ExposureHub to provide an enhanced offering, such as augmentation of location data, integrating the latest models via specialists in their field. Our team has crafted a transparent, simple-to-use and aesthetically pleasing environment to work in, encapsulating their expert knowledge within the product. This ensures that no user needs to be held back, for not having years of technological or exposure management experience themselves.”
Ebix Europe is a subsidiary of Ebix Inc., a international supplier of on-demand software and e-commerce services to the insurance, financial services, travel, healthcare and e-learning industries.
Source: Ebix Europe

Topics
Europe
