Swiss Re has agreed to sell iptiQ’s European P&C business to Allianz Direct, in line with its strategic decision to withdraw from iptiQ.
Allianz Direct, the pan-European online insurer of Allianz Group, will take over the risk carrier based in Luxembourg (iptiQ EMEA P&C S.A.), more than 100 employees currently working in Switzerland, Germany, Spain, the Netherlands and Italy, and all distribution agreements.
Financial details of the transaction were not disclosed. The sale is expected to close in Q2/Q3 2025, subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals.
iptiQ is a digital insurer that partners with other insurers, brokers, banks and consumer brands to deliver P&C as well as life and health insurance products to end-consumers (B2B2C). Earlier this year, Swiss Re announced its plans to withdraw from iptiQ as the group had concluded that, in a strategic context, it was not the best owner for this business in the long term.
“We are very pleased to have found a new owner for iptiQ’s European P&C business. This transaction is an important milestone in Swiss Re’s plan to withdraw from the iptiQ business as we strive to deliver the best possible outcome for the different units within the business and for all our stakeholders,” commented Jef Van In, CEO of iptiQ, in a statement.
The acquisition will expand Allianz Direct’s footprint further into the B2B2C segment as it is taking over more than 130,000 iptiQ customers. The transaction is in line with Allianz Direct’s goal to expand its B2B2C operations as it can capitalize on iptiQ’s distinctive business model and expertise in this segment.
“The acquisition of iptiQ’s European P&C business underlines our commitment to grow our footprint in key European markets, both in B2C and B2B2C distribution. We are excited to welcome the team from iptiQ to Allianz Direct and look forward to our future success,” said Philipp Kroetz, CEO Allianz Direct. “I am confident that together iptiQ and Allianz Direct can leverage the platform’s scale and competitiveness for its products and operations to drive further success for our business partners.”
Related:

Topics
Europe
Property Casualty
Allianz
Swiss Re
