This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Liberty Mutual Re and SiriusPoint.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Liberty Mutual Re Hires AXA XL’s Sharman for Casualty Reinsurance
Liberty Mutual Re (LM Re), part of Liberty Mutual Insurance Group, has appointed Alice Sharman to the role of senior underwriter – Casualty Reinsurance with immediate effect.
Sharman is responsible for underwriting LM Re’s U.S. casualty treaty portfolio, based in London. She replaces Max Mallen, who was recently promoted to the newly created role at LM Re of head of Portfolio Management – London & Rest of the World. She reports to Ralph Stainbank, underwriting manager – Reinsurance Casualty.
Sharman joins from AXA XL where she was Casualty Reinsurance underwriter, having joined them in 2019. She has more than 10 years of experience in reinsurance, firstly in actuarial and capital modelling before moving to underwriting.
SiriusPoint Taps AXA XL’s Pascall as Head of London and Int’l Casualty
SiriusPoint Ltd., the Bermuda-based specialty insurer and reinsurer, announced the appointment of Nick Pascall as head of London and International Casualty.
Pascall will be responsible for driving the London and international casualty underwriting strategy in line with the SiriusPoint group risk appetite, identifying profitable growth opportunities, and innovating SiriusPoint’s product offerings aligned to the evolving needs of the company’s clients.
He will work across the management and underwriting of casualty treaty, including the London U.S. excess of loss, and international treaty books, and international managing general agent (MGA) business.
With 30 years of experience in the industry, Pascall joins from AXA XL Re, London, where he was head of U.S. Casualty Reinsurance. Prior to that, he was head of Casualty Reinsurance at Hiscox Re. Pascall has previously worked with a number of leading reinsurance companies in London, Bermuda and Chicago.
Pascall will report to Robert Harman, general manger, SiriusPoint London Branch, and work collaboratively with the U.S. casualty underwriting team to develop the casualty business across the group’s underwriting platforms.

Topics
London
Casualty
AXA XL
