This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Aon’s Capital Advisory function and BMS Re.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Aon Names Allen as Executive Managing Director of Capital Advisory
Insurance broker Aon plc announced that Will Allen has been named executive managing director of Capital Advisory within Aon’s Reinsurance Solutions.
Reporting to Kelly Superczynski, Aon’s global head of Capital Advisory, Allen will be responsible for sourcing capital from global organizations – including institutional funds and family offices – to support Lloyd’s of London programs, including Funds at Lloyd’s (FAL) and London Bridge structures, as well as risk transfer programs involving the London market and Aon’s broader client base.
Working within Aon’s Risk Capital structure, Allen will leverage expertise and capabilities from across Aon – such as its Strategy and Technology Group, Analytics team and Aon Securities – to develop comprehensive solutions for clients. He will also work with the firm’s Lloyd’s-focused specialists, such as the FAL team, to deliver global capital to support risk transfer and capital optimization programs.
Allen brings with him more than two decades of capital management experience to his new role, having built longstanding relationships with global capital providers, and with a recent focus on bringing capital into the insurance sector. He most recently served as chief executive officer of London Innovation Underwriters, a company he founded to deploy funds into the Lloyd’s market.
“Will’s appointment marks another step in Aon’s investment in its Capital Advisory capability and highlights the importance of the Lloyd’s market as a London home for global capital,” Superczynski said.
Aon said Allen’s appointment marks another step in its commitment and investment in the Capital Advisory function, which aims to help clients manage volatility and build resilience through innovative capital optimization solutions.
BMS Re Hires 6 for MGA Business ProLink Solutions
BMS Re, the specialty reinsurance arm of the global broking group BMS, announced the appointment of six new hires to its dedicated MGA business, ProLink Solutions.
The hires include one executive vice president, Alicia Santocki; two senior vice presidents, Scott Fields and Stephanie Fick; two assistant vice presidents, Colin Curran, and Charles Ill; with Cora Cruz joining the team as an executive assistant.
Additionally, Brenda Martinez-Cox, assistant vice president, is being promoted to technical broker.
Santocki joins ProLink having previously been a partner and managing director of GMG assurance and vice chair of the data privacy team at Freeman Mathis & Gary, LLP. Fields previously worked as managing director of a captive management company in Atlanta, resuming his reinsurance career at ProLink Solutions. Fick most recently worked as a VP senior treaty underwriter at Swiss Re. Curran joins the team from Berkley Asset Protection, Cruz joins from ScotiaBank Equity Capital Markets, and Ill joins from Aon. Martinez-Cox is promoted to technical broker having joined BMS Re in January 2024 from Biberk Insurance Company.
“With these appointments the team at ProLink Solutions goes from 15 to 21 people, a great marker of how much we have been able to expand in a year,” commented Desmond Bonhan, managing director, BMS Re Prolink Solutions.
Founded within BMS Re in mid-2023, ProLink Solutions has rapidly become one of the largest brokers in the programs sector. ProLink’s reach now encompasses programs worth nearly $6 billion of premium across more than 50 insurance carrier relationships. Among MGAs/MGUs, ProLink works with 20 of the largest programs and more than 80 program managers.

Topics
Talent
Insurance Wholesale
Aon
Human Resources
