This edition of International People Moves details appointments at WTW, Markel and RSA Insurance.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
WTW Hires Bryce for Personal Lines, Canada
Insurance broker WTW announced the appointment of Allison Bryce as the national practice leader, Personal Lines, Canada, within Corporate Risk and Broking (CRB), North America.
Bryce brings 20-plus years of experience as a successful executive and client leader in the North American insurance industry. Joining from The Magnes Group, where she most recently served as a partner and vice president, and private client leader for more than 16 years, Bryce will be based in the Toronto office.
Reporting directly to Tyler Banks, practice leader for Personal Lines, North America, and Erin Magilton, Canadian leader, Corporate Risk and Broking, Bryce will focus on deepening and expanding client relationships across the Canadian market.
A highly respected insurance leader with strong carrier relationships, Bryce brings a unique outlook to the personal insurance space which will further enhance the value proposition that WTW brings to each personal lines client.
She is passionate about delivering an exceptional client experience and works collaboratively with clients to help them navigate the complexities of insurance contracts. Prior experience includes more than 13 years at PSA Insurance Services, where she served as personal lines manager before becoming a managing partner.
“Allison brings a personal approach to the business, always seeking an understanding of specific client needs. Additionally, her broad network of industry relationships will be a welcome addition to WTW. Her strategic insights in delivering specialized solutions to personal lines insurance clients is industry-leading, and I am delighted to welcome her to the team,” commented Tyler Banks, Practice Leader, Personal Lines, North America, CRB, WTW.
Markel Taps PwC’s Feng as Warranty & Indemnity U/W
Markel, the insurance operations within the Markel Group Inc., has named Steven Feng as an underwriter for its Warranty and Indemnity (W&I) team.
Based at Markel’s London office, Feng will report directly to Bryan Dressler, head of W&I at Markel’s international insurance business, where he will be responsible for underwriting the tax risks inherent in W&I transactions. Feng’s skillset complements the team’s existing strengths, which include experience in multiple insurance lines, financial due diligence, and investment rationale expertise, to create a model specifically tailored for small and medium-sized enterprise (SME) transactions in the UK and European Economic Area (EEA).
Feng brings a wealth of experience to his underwriting role, having spent more than nine years at professional services firm PwC. After qualifying as an accountant in PwC’s Assurance team, he spent almost five years working within the organization’s London Mergers & Acquisitions (M&A) Tax team, where he advised private equity clients on a variety of mid-market to high value transactions. During this period, he held several senior roles which included senior associate for M&A tax and M&A tax manager, respectively.
“Markel’s W&I business line was established last year with the purpose of being able to systematically assess the primary pillars of W&I risk – insurance, financial, legal, and tax due diligence – to allow for a streamlined and steady experience for our brokers and insureds. Steven’s background in managing tax risks in line with the cadence of M&A fits this foundation perfectly,” commented Dressler.
RSA Appoints Godfrey as Transformation Director
RSA Insurance announced it has appointed James Godfrey as transformation director, effective as immediately.
In his new role, Godfrey will contribute to the delivery of RSA’s strategic outperformance objectives by driving the UK&I strategic transformation roadmap and investment profile. He will lead a team that will be responsible for the delivery of enterprise-wide programmes intended to future-proof its technology, digital and data capabilities.
Godfrey will report into Oliver Holden, chief information officer at RSA, UK&I.
Godfrey will join RSA from Atos, where he held the position of Technology and Business Change Transformation Specialist, working with clients to deliver transformational technology and business change programmes. Prior to this, Godfrey was UK Transformation Director at Aviva, where he was responsible for delivering the insurer’s integrated multi-year strategic investment roadmap and business architecture.

Topics
Canada
Willis Towers Watson
