Brazilian insurer BB Seguridade Participacoes SA raised some of its full-year forecasts on Monday after reporting a 69% jump in third-quarter profit on the back of a strong performance in insurance, pension plans and premium bonds.
BB Seguridade, which is controlled by state-run lender Banco do Brasil SA, said in a securities filing it now expects its full-year non-interest operating income to grow 24% to 27%, up from a previous forecast of a 15%-20% increase.
Shares in the company rose more than 3% in the wake of the announcement before paring some gains, while Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa stock index .BVSP was nearly flat.
The insurer, which had already revised up its outlook for the key metric last quarter, said the latest upgrade came on the back of a continuous loss ratio improvement and higher-than-expected sales, mainly in the insurance segment.
BB Seguridade reported a third-quarter net profit of 1.65 billion reais ($326.36 million), up 69% from a year earlier, slightly above analysts’ expectations of net income of 1.5 billion reais, according to a Refinitiv poll.
Analysts at JPMorgan called the results “strong across the board,” saying that BB Seguridade’s Brasilseg insurance unit remains a big highlight with earnings growth of 160% on a year-on-year basis and written premiums at a resilient level.
The resultsled the company to also announce it now expects written premiums at Brasilseg to grow 25% to 28% this year, up from 20% to 25% in the previous estimate, citing growth in rural insurance and credit life insurance sales.
The firm kept guidance for its pension plan unit Brasilprev unchanged, saying it expects reserves to grow 9% to 13% this year.
($1 = 5.0557 reais)
(Reporting by Gabriel Araujo, editing by Louise Heavens, Susan Fenton and Paul Simao)

Topics
Trends
Profit Loss
