This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Marsh, Chubb and Everest Insurance.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Marsh Names Butler as UK Cyber Leader
Marsh, the insurance brokerage business of Marsh McLennan, announced the appointment of Kelly Butler as UK cyber leader, effective October 2023. Butler will be based in London and report to Beth Thurston, CEO, UK Financial & Professional Lines (FINPRO).
In this role, Butler will be responsible for the strategic development and delivery of Marsh UK cyber insurance and placement capabilities. She will also work closely with Marsh McLennan’s cyber risk experts to develop integrated risk and advisory services that support clients in managing rapidly evolving cyber threats.
Butler is currently based in Melbourne and is chief client officer and cyber practice leader, Pacific. She joined Marsh in 2016 and has had a variety of senior cyber insurance roles, overseeing the firm’s client advisory and placement services for cyber risk throughout the Pacific region, and serving as a senior cyber adviser for Marsh’s largest clients.
Chubb Appoints O’Donnell to COO, Global Reinsurance
Chubb Ltd. announced that Michael O’Donnell has been appointed chief operating officer, Global Reinsurance. Currently, he serves as division president of Chubb Tempest Re USA. In his new role, O’Donnell will continue to have responsibility for the U.S. operations of Chubb Tempest Re while expanding his remit into the strategic and tactical operations of the company’s global reinsurance operations.
The appointment is effective immediately. O’Donnell will continue to report to Jim Wixtead, senior vice president, Chubb Group, and resident, Chubb Tempest Re.
O’Donnell has more than 30 years of experience in the insurance industry. He joined Chubb Tempest Re Bermuda in 2006 as a casualty treaty underwriter. He was then promoted to senior vice president with responsibility for ACE Tempest Re USA’s workers compensation and alternative risk business units as well as oversight of its claims operations. Since 2014, he has been responsible for Chubb’s U.S. property/casualty assumed reinsurance operation. Prior to Chubb, he was with General Reinsurance Corp., where he underwrote the casualty facultative business.
Everest Insurance Taps Marsh McLennan’s Leney to Head Asia Pacific Region
Everest Insurance, the insurance division of Everest Re Group Ltd., has appointed Scott Leney as head of Asia Pacific for its International Division, effective Nov. 6. He will be based in Sydney, Australia and will report to Adam Clifford and Jason Keen, co-heads of Everest Insurance International.
With an exceptional 30-year track record leading global risk management teams across the Asia Pacific region, Leney will oversee the insurance division’s business strategy and growing portfolios both in Asia and the Pacific, led by Ben Carey, head of Asia, and Christian Colombera, head of Pacific, respectively.
Leney joins Everest from Marsh McLennan where he was most recently head of Risk Management for Asia & Pacific and country corporate officer for Australia. He was also a member of the Marsh Asia executive team responsible for leading its senior risk managers and developing strategic solutions for the company’s largest clients.
Prior to that, Leney was CEO of Marsh Australia, where he led the expanded Australian business during the successful integration of JLT Australia. He also served as CEO of Marsh Pacific and was a member of the Pacific Executive Committee and the International Executive Committee. Leney is currently deputy president and board member of The Australian and New Zealand Institute of Insurance and Finance (ANZIIF) and holds a Bachelor of Commerce in Economics from Deakin University.

Topics
Cyber
Leadership
Chubb
