This edition of International People Moves details appointments at managing general agent DUAL Europe and insurance broker WTW.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
DUAL Swiss Taps Tokio Marine’s Wyss as Managing Director
DUAL Europe announced the appointment of Michael Wyss as managing director of DUAL Swiss, reporting to Olaf Jonda, CEO, DUAL Europe.
Wyss brings 20 years of experience in the insurance industry, beginning his career as a D&O underwriter, and going on to lead international teams at Tokio Marine HCC, where he played a key role in strategic development and operational leadership.
“We are delighted to welcome Michael to DUAL. His extensive experience and strategic insight make him an excellent fit for our growth ambitions in Switzerland,” commented Jonda. “The Swiss market, being mature and sophisticated in both financial and insurance sectors, requires top-tier players. With Michael’s proven leadership, we aim to meet these demands, becoming the partner of choice for Swiss brokers, and enhancing our European capacity and underwriting excellence hubs across Europe.”
DUAL Swiss’s primary lines of business include engineering & construction, financial lines, cyber, fine art & specie, and M&A.
DUAL is the specialist underwriting arm of Howden Group.
WTW Appoints 3 Senior Hires to International Casualty Team
Insurance broker WTW has appointed three key hires to its international casualty team, based in the London office (part of the direct and facultative global line of business).
Sam Barnes joins WTW as a director, having held several broking roles at JLT and Marsh. With over a decade of industry experience, Barnes will focus on large and complex risks and new business development reporting to Ed Hunter, head of international casualty at WTW.
WTW also welcomed Camilla Chiatti, who will focus on Latin American and European regions. Joining from Beazley, Chiatti is skilled in technical underwriting, with broad Western European experience and will report to Ed Hunter.
In addition, Parry Herbert returns to the team as an associate director, after more than 15 years and having spent much of that time at Aon. With more than 20 years of broking experience, Herbert will focus on the Canadian region. Herbert will report to Thomas Wright, joint head of international casualty at WTW.
Sam Barnes, Camilla Chiatti and Parry Herbert all joined WTW in early July.

Topics
Talent
Casualty
Human Resources
Willis Towers Watson
