This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Miller, HSB Canada and HDI Global.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Miller Taps Marsh’s Holloway as Head of Europe
Miller, the London-based specialist reinsurance broker, announced the appointment of Oscar Holloway as head of Miller Europe to support the firm’s strategic growth ambitions. He will report into Mike Papworth and be based in London.
Oscar joins from Marsh, where he was senior vice president in its capital markets division, providing advice and structured finance solutions to banks, corporates, and funds. Holloway started his career as an infantry officer in the British Army, before developing expertise in M&A advisory at Rothschild, and then at Jardine Lloyd Thomson (now Marsh) as director of Corporate Development.
Holloway’s specialist M&A expertise will support Miller’s continued growth in Europe and Asia and reflects the firm’s commitment to continue its international expansion, having announced the strategic re-alignment of its business into two divisions, Miller UK and Miller International, earlier this year.
“I’m pleased to welcome Oscar to Miller, and I look forward to working with him closely to further build our presence on the Continent. Europe and Asia are key markets for Miller, and Oscar’s M&A expertise will help bolster our next chapter of growth,” commented Papworth.
HSB Canada Names Walker Chief Distribution Officer
HSB Canada announced that Jeff Walker has been appointed head of its treaty reinsurance, broker and MGA distribution divisions.
Walker, senior vice president and chief distribution officer, reports to John Mulvihill, president and chief executive officer of HSB Canada, part of Munich Re.
Walker joined HSB Canada May 9, 2023, with more than 18 years insurance industry experience, including executive leadership roles with responsibilities for sales and business development, brand marketing and communications, property claims and digital strategy. Prior to HSB Canada, he was a vice president at Intact Insurance where he worked more than 10 years, according to his LinkedIn profile.
Walker holds an executive master of business administration and is a chartered insurance professional.
HSB Canada, part of Munich Re, is a multi-line specialty insurer and provider of inspection, risk management and IoT technology services. HSB Canada’s insurance offerings include equipment breakdown, cyber risk and other coverages.
HDI’s UK & Ireland Branch Names Key Appointments
HDI Global SE announced it has made several senior appointments in its UK & Ireland branch, including a new director of Underwriting, as it aims to deliver on its growth plans.
Antonia Osborne has joined HDI as director of Underwriting, effective immediately. In her role, Osborne will take overall responsibility for underwriting performance, future underwriting strategy and ensuring alignment between HDI’s proposition and the needs of its clients and brokers. She will report directly to Managing Director Stephanie Ogden.
Osborne joins HDI from Chubb Global Markets where she held the role of head of Underwriting Operations and Governance. She was also one of the founding members of the Apollo Syndicate and has a wealth of experience in the Lloyd’s and London market.
Going forward, all underwriting lines of business will report to Osborne. Until Osborne’s appointment, Stephanie Ogden had maintained this responsibility after being promoted from her previous role as director of Underwriting & Distribution.
Osborne will play a leading role in leveraging the scale of HDI’s UK operations through close alignment with her two counterparts at HDI Global Specialty, notably Adam Curran, director of Underwriting, and Jade Wilcox, director of Delegated Authority Underwriting.
HDI also welcomes a new lead cyber underwriter, Philip Smith, to lead the growth and development of this key product line. Smith joins HDI from Chubb Australia where he was the cyber & technology practice leader for Victoria, Western Australia and South Australia. He will report directly to Osborne in the UK.
This will be Smith’s second stint as an HDI employee, having previously worked for the company in Australia for seven years across a variety of underwriting roles and classes before joining Chubb.
Earlier in the summer James Medlicott joined HDI from Aviva as a manager in the liability team. Regan Shaw joined the distribution team as a strategic relationship manager from RSA.

Topics
Europe
Canada
