DUAL Group announced the appointment of Marilena Rodriguez Forero as CEO for the newly established region, DUAL Latin America, effective Aug. 1, 2024.
Rodriguez Forero will be a member of DUAL’s Group Executive Committee, reporting to Richard Clapham, CEO, DUAL Group. Her appointment reinforces the strategic importance of the region, where DUAL has been present since 2021.
Rodriguez Forero, who is based in Mexico, has more than 30 years’ industry experience and joins DUAL from AXA where she served as P&C underwriting director. She also held various senior roles at AXA XL. Prior to this, she worked at XL Catlin as head of Facultative Business, Latam.
“Marilena’s appointment is a significant milestone in DUAL’s growth journey. Latin America is a key insurance market with great potential, and Marilena will lead and expand our business in Latin America focusing on bringing in more great talent to expand our existing teams, building a compelling proposition for brokers and carriers across the region,” commented Richard Clapham, CEO, DUAL Group.
DUAL, the specialist underwriting arm of Howden Group, has underwriting teams based in Mexico, the largest reinsurance market in Latin America, and Brazil, the region’s largest economy and insurance market. Francisco Vogt Marques leads the team in Brazil and brings over 20 years’ experience within the Brazilian and Latin American re/insurance industry across personal and corporate lines, insurance, assumed and ceded reinsurance.
Dock Re, a Lloyd’s coverholder and MGA, is based in Mexico and is led by Gabriel Buzo. Acquired by DUAL in 2021, Dock Re focuses on property, casualty and financial lines.

Topics
AXA XL
