This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Gallagher, Aon and Sompo International.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Gallagher Hires Wright from Nexus for Aerospace Practice
Gallagher has appointed Tim Wright as a consultant in its global aerospace practice. In his new role, Wright is responsible for supporting international space clients with risk management and specialist insurance advice, as well as supporting business development in the sector.
Wright is a highly experienced practitioner having worked in space insurance for over 30 years representing clients whilst a broker and underwriting space risks of all the major operators, satellite manufacturers and launch vehicle providers.
Most recently, Wright was chief underwriting officer for space with Nexus Underwriting which acquired Altitude Risk Partners in 2018, a business which was co-founded by Wright in 2014. He started his career as a broker with Willis in the late 1980s before joining Johnson and Higgins, prior to the firm being purchased by Marsh in 1997. After a period with Aon, Tim became a space underwriter in 2001 at Global Aerospace Underwriting Managers, a position he held until co-founding Altitude Risk Partners.
“The space industry is undergoing rapid growth and change with the advent of new industry players complementing existing major operators with a multitude of new satellite constellations, new and developing launch vehicles and software defined satellites, all of which need innovative and forward-thinking insurance solutions to protect their business operating in space,” commented Wright.
Aon Names Global Head of ESG Transaction Advisory Services
Aon plc, a leading global professional services firm, announced that its M&A and Transaction Solutions practice has further expanded with the appointment of Luise O’Gorman as global head of ESG Transaction Advisory Services.
In this new role, O’Gorman will lead the creation and development of a holistic environmental, social and governance (ESG) proposition tailored to M&A and other transactions designed to meet the growing demand for pre-acquisition ESG solutions and post-closing support, including advisory and transactional services for financial sponsor-owned portfolio companies.
Prior to joining Aon, O’Gorman was a management consultant with a career focus in climate risk, the energy transition, renewable energy and sustainability more broadly. Working with PwC, Baringa Partners and as an independent consultant, she advised central governments and private-sector companies in the UK and EU, particularly in the energy and financial services industries.
Most recently, O’Gorman advised a multinational financial services company on how to adhere to recent regulations by embedding climate risk considerations into its business and operating model. She completed an MBA at the University of Cambridge having studied International Business as an undergraduate at the University of Applied Science in Dresden, Germany.
“Our own recent analysis has shows that ESG considerations have become an important area of focus for companies and their stakeholders – impacting deal structures, valuations and post-deal roadmaps,” said Edwin Charnaud, chairman, M&A and Transaction Solutions at Aon. “As part of the due diligence processes, buyers will increasingly scrutinize how targets address the volatility of climate risk and contribute to environmental goals, determine if they act socially responsible and identify material, financial, compliance and reputational risks. On the sell-side, dealmakers may want to highlight opportunities to leverage targets’ positive ESG credentials.”
“I am thrilled to join Aon to help secure investments, enhance returns and shape better deal decisions for our clients,” said O’Gorman. “I am excited to join such a diverse global team of proven professionals dedicated to staying ahead of trends and driving innovation in the M&A space in a way that not only participates in the market, but helps drive it.”
Sompo Int’l Taps Generali’s Chiurlo as European Head of A&H
Global re/insurer Sompo International announced the appointment of Stefano Chiurlo as head of Accident & Health Europe. He will be based in Milan, Italy.
Chiurlo comes to Sompo International with more than 15 years of insurance experience, most recently as group head of Health & Accident for the Generali Group. He previously held a number of senior technical and leadership roles in the A&H segment with Generali Group as well as AXA XL, XL Catlin, AXA Italy, ACE and AIG. He holds a master’s degree in Political Science from the Università Statale di Milano, Italy.
Chiurlo’s appointment is the latest move in the building out of Sompo International’s A&H capability beyond a traditional London wholesale offering into the UK, Europe and around the world, according to Patrick Corbett, executive vice president, global head of Accident & Health at Sompo International Insurance.
Sompo International refers to Sompo International Holdings Ltd., a Bermuda-based holding company, together with its consolidated subsidiaries. Through its operating subsidiaries, Sompo International is a leading global provider of commercial and consumer property/casualty re/insurance.

Topics
Europe
Aon
A.J. Gallagher
Aerospace
