This edition of International People Moves details appointments at the broker Price Forbes and the MGA Altea Insurance.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Price Forbes Taps BMS’s Morgan for Global Construction Team
Price Forbes, the London-based broker, announced that Henry Morgan will be joining its global construction team in London as director – Construction.
With over 13 years of experience in the US construction wholesale market, Morgan brings a wealth of knowledge and expertise to further enhance Price Forbes’ strategic focus on growth in this area. He is expected to join the Price Forbes team in March 2025.
Morgan is a divisional director at BMS where he has been for eight years. Prior to that he was an account handler at JLT for five years.
Operating under the brands Bishopsgate, Price Forbes and InverRe, Ardonagh Specialty is the largest independent specialty broker in the London market with offices around the globe. It has approximately 1500 colleagues globally, manages more than $7 billion in gross written premium and is the fifth largest Lloyd’s broker.
MGA Altea Insurance Names Dixon as Senior Underwriter
Altea Insurance, the London-based managing general agent that specializes in the healthcare and medical sectors, has appointed Holly Dixon as senior underwriter.
She will report to Altea CEO Carly Matson.
Dixon joins Altea from Corvelia Underwriting, where she was senior medical malpractice underwriter. With over 13 years of experience in the industry, including a decade with Hiscox UK and roles at Omnyy LLP, Dixon brings a wealth of expertise in both open market and delegated authority business.
“We’re thrilled to welcome Holly to the Altea team,” Matson said. “Holly’s unique blend of specialist medical malpractice knowledge and commercial combined experience, along with her expertise in sectors such as complex primary care, fertility, aesthetics, and surgical risks, will enable Altea to provide even greater insight and support to our brokers, partners and clients.”
He noted that Altea is moving into its second year as a specialist healthcare MGA.
Altea is supported by Mission Underwriters, and, as an Accelerant member, is backed by long-term capacity secured via the Accelerant Risk Exchange.
Altea provides multi-year, multi-class insurance and risk management solutions tailored for the medical, allied health and care sectors.

Topics
Underwriting
Insurance Wholesale
Construction
