Howden, the London-based insurance broker, announced it has received a license from the Central Bank of Bahrain to establish operations in the Kingdom of Bahrain.
Howden said this represents a significant step in the broker’s strategic growth ambitions for the Gulf region.
The launch of Howden Bahrain adds another key territory to Howden’s footprint in the Gulf, with existing operations in Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Oman employing over 200 people in the region. It will provide a full range of insurance broking and risk advisory services across multiple risk sectors including aviation, construction, energy, financial institutions, marine, property/casualty, employee benefits and specialty lines.
“I am delighted to be involved in this new and exciting venture here in Bahrain, which has been my home for 26 years. Howden Bahrain will provide Bahraini clients with personalised insurance solutions bolstered by Howden’s specialist expertise, data and analytics and technological capabilities,” commented Adam Knights, executive director and chief executive officer, Howden Bahrain.
“Our engagements with multiple renowned Bahraini enterprises have encouraged us that there is ample opportunity for an alternative insurance broker to provide services in the Kingdom, and our strategy will be to grow a sizeable market share by adding value to Bahraini clients using our international capabilities and by attracting and developing local talent,” he added.
“Howden has operated in the Gulf for over a decade, and we were attracted to the Kingdom of Bahrain due to its reputation for being business friendly, combined with its comprehensive regulatory environment and the availability of experienced and talented local individuals,” according to David Howden, chief executive officer, Howden.
“Our goal is to provide choice for clients in Bahrain and the wider Gulf region. We are eager to grow our existing territorial presence and develop a range of specialist solutions, and look forward to building one of the leading brokers in the region, combining our international platform with local expertise,” Howden continued.
Source: Howden Broking