This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Price Forbes Re and AXA XL.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Price Forbes Re Taps Howden’s Waterhouse as Head of Property Fac
Price Forbes Re, the London-based specialist reinsurance broker, announced the appointment of Oliver Waterhouse as the head of Property Facultative.
Waterhouse is based in Price Forbes Re’s London offices and reports directly to Nikki Melbourne, head of Facultative. In his new role, Waterhouse will spearhead the Property Fac division, a core area of growth for Price Forbes Re.
He brings 14 years of extensive experience in the global property market. He most recently managed facultative operations as an executive director at Howden Tiger. Previously, he worked at WTW as an executive director for international property and international fac. He also worked at Marsh within the Risk Management Practice.
Price Forbes Re (formerly Inver Re) is Ardonagh Specialty’s reinsurance unit.
AXA XL Appoints Underwriters and Claims Adjusters to UK Cyber Team
AXA XL has strengthened its cyber capacity in the UK with new appointments in its underwriting and claims teams.
Vanessa Leemans, head of Cyber, UK & Lloyd’s, who joined in 2022 to lead AXA XL’s cyber business in the UK, has added five cyber underwriters (which brings her team to eight) and two claims adjusters.
Daniel Garrett joins from Berkshire Hathaway as cyber underwriting manager, and brings with him over 13 years’ experience predominantly in cyber and technology underwriting.
Dan Lander joins from Liberty Specialty Markets as senior cyber underwriter, and brings with him six years’ experience in cyber underwriting and over 10 years’ experience in technology underwriting.
Adelaide Fragiacomo joins from AXA XL Australia as cyber underwriter bringing with her four years’ experience.
Fred Kelleher joins as cyber underwriter bringing with him a legal background and London market wording experience, having previously worked at AXA XL as a M&A underwriter.
John Wild joins as cyber underwriter bringing with him London market underwriting experience across open market and portfolio solutions having previously worked at AXA XL as a K&R underwriter.
Chloe Hargreaves joins as cyber claims adjuster from AXA XL’s Graduate Scheme, and will work with Joseph Putnam, senior cyber claims adjuster, who joined the London team in 2023 from AXA XL’s New York office.
“As businesses are increasingly reliant upon digital platforms and cloud services, they’re becoming more vulnerable to cyber exploitation, and it’s against this backdrop that we’re seeing growth in the global cyber insurance market,” commented Leemans.
“In the London market, there is growth potential as we partner with London brokers and our large corporate clients globally with revenues exceeding US$500 million. It’s important that we’re able to support demand on primary and excess cyber insurance with cyber expertise. Cyber remains a top concern amongst our clients and that’s why we’re expanding our UK cyber team,” she added.

Topics
Cyber
Claims
Underwriting
Property
AXA XL
