This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Blenheim Underwriting’s Syndicate 5886 and the MGA Pen Underwriting.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Blenheim Syndicate 5886 Taps Barber From Fortegra as Sr. Liability Treaty U/W
Blenheim Underwriting announced the appointment of David Barber as a senior liability treaty underwriter on Syndicate 5886.
Well known and respected in the insurance market, Barber has a remit to build a portfolio for Blenheim of niche liability classes, written via long-standing delegated authority/ reinsurance relationships. His arrival marks a new chapter in the development of Syndicate 5886, as Barber’s book of business becomes another significant pillar of the syndicate’s portfolio.
Barber joins from Fortegra where he has been for the past four years, and prior to that spent 25 years at Chaucer where he was head of the liability division.
Barber’s portfolio comprises MGA/MGU/delegated authority business in the US, UK and Europe, 65% of which is lead business and has outperformed market results for the original binder classes. The classes of business written will include US E&O, medical malpractice (allied health and life sciences), financial institutions and general liability.
“Blenheim’s owners White Bear are looking to selectively build our MGA and Lloyd’s business with high-performing underwriting teams. We have top quartile performance in Lloyd’s for 2023 and a real desire to further expand our operations,” commented John Lynch, Blenheim CEO.
Blenheim, which was launched in 2021, is responsible for the management of Syndicate 5886 at Lloyd’s
Pen’s Vessel Protect Names Lockton’s Kent as Biz Development U/W
Pen Underwriting’s marine war risk insurance specialist, Vessel Protect, has appointed James Kent as senior business development underwriter on Monday June 3.
Bringing more than 20 years’ marine insurance expertise, Kent joins from broker Lockton Omni where he was business development manager for the past five years. Prior to this, he had 15 years of underwriting experience at the senior level – working for Thomas Miller Specialty, Navigators Insurance Co., Lodestar Marine and British Marine. He began his career with a grounding in marine liability claims at Steamship Mutual P&I (Protection & Indemnity) Club.
Having specialized in underwriting P&I and marine liability on an international basis, Kent also brings experience of successfully establishing new insurance facilities, product enhancement, book development, placing re/insurance policies and managing claims on behalf of clients.
“James will be a fantastic asset to our fast-growing business with his broad range of marine experience and diverse skill set, as we look to continue our strong growth trajectory while collaborating effectively with and supporting Pen’s wider marine specialisms,” commented Chris Goddard, co-managing director of Marine at Pen and CEO of Vessel Protect.
In addition to the war and kidnap & ransom risks, which are Vessel Protect specialities, Pen’s marine practice covers everything from ports & terminals, marine trades and brown water hull to marine professionals and logistics providers.
Kent’s hiring comes on the heels of Vessel Protect’s announcement in April that it has bolstered its cover commitment in conflict zones with increased war risk limits to protect and facilitate trade, up to US$250 million for any one vessel, and cargo war coverage limits of up to US$100 million.
At the same time, Pen increased its investment in Lloyd’s by doubling its presence on the trading floor only six months after taking its first box.
Established in 2020, Vessel Protect specializes in underwriting marine war risks and kidnap & ransom (piracy) and is 100% backed by Lloyd’s syndicates.
Pen Underwriting is a multi-class, multi-territory managing general agent (MGA) that operates as a virtual insurer, meaning it can fulfill all the typical functions of an insurance company — from underwriting, sales & distribution, pricing & analytics, product innovation, risk & governance through to claims handling — other than the provision of insurance capital. It is a subsidiary of Arthur J. Gallagher & Co.

Topics
Liability
