Doe & Emuss (D&E), the London-based boutique professional liability underwriting manager, has been launched with approved coverholder status at Lloyd’s.
D&E is founded and led by industry veterans, Chief Executive David Doe and Managing Director Paul Emuss, who have more than 70 years’ combined experience in the Lloyd’s and London Market. D&E will place and manage portfolios of professional liability business, as well as underwrite professional liability insurance on Lloyd’s paper that is made up of eight to 10 mostly top quartile performing syndicates.
“We are very excited to be launching this new venture,” said Doe. “There remains unprecedented demand in the North American market for professional liability insurance. We believe it is the right time to offer the market a new and truly independent platform for US and Canadian agents and brokers as well as Lloyd’s brokers seeking risk placement solutions.”
The professional liability market in the US is estimated to be worth some $35 billion in premium volume and is growing, the company said.
“The US remains the world’s largest economy with the most litigious society in the world, so demand remains buoyant for our type of products,” Doe added.
D&E will offer the full spectrum of professional liability underwriting services via wholesale brokers and agents in London, the US, and Canada.
“The professional liability insurance we sell keeps the wheels of commerce going in the United States and Canada,” said Emuss. “This is the perfect time for D&E to partner with market-leading syndicates and brokers in Lloyd’s to offer specialist coverage and outstanding claims handling to the businesses and professionals that need it the most,” he continued. “We are authorised to underwrite over 10,000 professional classes. We are in a market-leading position, focusing on small-to-medium enterprise (SME) businesses – we are more ‘Main Street’ not ‘Wall Street.'”
“The post-pandemic market has created an opportunity for D&E with a noticeable decline in the Lloyd’s ‘open market.’ We can hopefully offer solutions to Lloyd’s brokers as well as our agency base in North America,” Doe added. “Whilst we are moving into a slightly softer market, our production of new business is up substantially. We have a great opportunity given our combined years of underwriting experience, coupled with our cutting-edge technology, allowing us to handle substantial volumes of business.”
Before setting up D&E, Doe worked as managing director of Professional Lines at Alesco Risk Management Services since July 2018. He has held numerous senior management positions in the Lloyd’s market, and in 2006 became the UK’s 600th qualified Chartered Director. In 2014, he was made a Fellow of the Institute of Directors.
Since November 2022, Emuss worked as underwriting director of Professional Lines for Alesco Delegated Authority. From 2001 to 2022, he was director, head of Analytics, at Arthur J. Gallagher, where he built a small team to form the Risk Analytics and Insight function, overseeing analytics resources in London, Barbados, and Bangalore. Emuss has been an underwriter at multiple companies, including Cotesworth Syndicate, QBE, and Zurich, from 1992 to 2001.
Doe & Emuss was set up in 2024 and provides professional liability insurance to small and medium-sized (SME) businesses in the United States and Canada via wholesale brokers in the London Market and Lloyd’s.
Source: Doe & Emuss

Topics
Excess Surplus
Liability
New Markets
Lloyd's
Professional Liability
