This edition of International People Moves details appointments at AXA XL and DUAL’s specialist motor MGA KGM.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
AXA XL Promotes Cole to Global Chief Underwriting Officer for Marine
AXA XL has promoted Neil Cole to global chief underwriting officer, Marine, effective April 1.
In his new role, Cole will work to set the strategic direction and support the development of AXA XL’s Marine portfolios. Cole will sit within AXA XL’s Global chief underwriting office, which works with AXA XL’s regional underwriting teams to support profitable growth, assisting with pricing, risk aggregation and global product strategy.
Based in London, Cole will report to Anne Marie Elder, global chief underwriting officer, Specialty.
Cole has 25 years of experience in the marine industry, 10 of which at AXA XL. He started his career in claims before moving into underwriting and specialising in international marine markets. Since 2020, Cole has been global head of Underwriting Management and deputy chief underwriting officer, Marine.
“The marine transportation industry is undergoing significant change. Our clients are using increasingly large vessels while exploring greener fuel as part of their decarbonization efforts,” commented Elder. “They’re also making headways in the use of new technologies, including artificial intelligence. As a result, our marine clients are facing new risks and are turning to us to help them better understand and manage those.”
With a career spanning more than two decades and a deep knowledge of the industry, “Neil is an ideal candidate to support our regional underwriting teams and drive the profitable development of our marine portfolio,” Elder added.
DUAL’s Specialist Motor MGA KGM Names Astin as Managing Director
KGM, DUAL UK’s specialist motor managing general agent, announced the appointment of Ciaran Astin as managing director, subject to regulatory approval.
This key appointment reflects KGM’s strategy to attract industry leading talent to realize its growth ambitions in the highly competitive motor insurance sector.
Astin brings over a decade of leadership and business development experience within the motor insurance sector, having previously held senior roles at Hastings Group and Direct Line Group. He was most recently managing director of DriveScore, the app-driven motor insurance data business within ClearScore group.
“We are delighted to welcome Ciaran on board as managing director of KGM. KGM is a recognised leader in specialist motor insurance with a history going back over 65 years,” commented Simon McGinn, CEO, DUAL UK.
“Ciaran joins a business already delivering above sector growth, and I am confident his leadership will see this success continue. Ciaran’s career has included a strong focus on tech, data and AI which are very naturally key areas of focus for KGM, and looking ahead, we’ll be further investing people and technology to support our growth,” McGinn said.
Founded in 1957, KGM writes across all classes of motor insurance and its motor portfolio is supported by Zurich. KGM also underwrites on behalf of Canopius (property/leisure) and Trinity Lane (ancillary products). KGM has been part of DUAL UK since 2021.
DUAL, the specialist underwriting arm of Howden Group, is one of the world’s largest international underwriting agencies with $3.5 billion of GWP. Established in 1998, today DUAL has over 1,500 people in 21 countries across the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific, and is one of Lloyd’s’ largest international coverholders.

Topics
Talent
Underwriting
Insurance Wholesale
AXA XL
Human Resources
