Pro MGA Global Solutions, the independent managing general agent (MGA) incubator, announced its incubation partnership with specialty MGA Nirvana.
Nirvana is led by CEO Kabir Chanrai and Executive Chairman Rob Jones, along with Thomas Mannsdorfer, head of Europe, and Glenn Crickmar, sector underwriter. The business was established in 2017 as part of Castel Underwriting Agencies, and the incubation partnership with Pro MGA Global Solutions follows Nirvana’s management-led buyout (MBO) from Castel in March 2023.
London-headquartered Pro MGA Global Solutions, which is a division of global re/insurance adviser Pro Global Holdings Ltd., will provide regulatory, operational and technical support to help the team at Nirvana continue their successful growth.
MGAs: An All-Weather Distribution Channel for Soft and Hard Markets
Nirvana’s insurance portfolio encompasses media liability; film and television liability; technology liability; and cyber liability, provided for all sizes of business from SMEs to larger corporates. Nirvana has ambitious plans to grow into a diversified service- and underwriting-first MGA through hires and acquisitions of existing MGAs.
“Nirvana’s goal is to deliver insurance solutions that span the full risk spectrum, and as we move onto the next phase of our growth, we are focused on expanding the innovative global package of media and technology liability products we have developed through both organic and inorganic channels,” commented Chanrai.
“This is a very exciting time to be launching Nirvana independently, and I’m looking forward to driving ahead with our underwriting first and service first mindset. With Pro MGA Global Solutions’ expert support, we can stay focused on pursuing our long-term growth strategy and delivering valuable solutions to our clients,” Chanrai said.
“It’s a pleasure to work with the entrepreneurial Nirvana team who have so successfully built out the business focusing on innovative and profitable cyber, media and technology liability products,” according to Danny Maleary, CEO of Pro MGA Global Solutions.
“Here at Pro MGA Global Solutions, we have extensive experience of the Lloyd’s and London company markets across a wide range of disciplines in brokers, service providers and insurers, as well as highly relevant experience in the MGA arena across the companies market and international platforms,” Maleary said.
“I’m looking forward to bringing the full strength of our network to bear to support the strong growth that is on the horizon for Nirvana in a sustainable way by providing a platform with full regulatory oversight and operational support. This will empower the high caliber Nirvana team to focus on what they do best: developing innovative products that help solve real world challenges for their clients.”
About Nirvana Risk Partners and Pro MGA Global Solutions
Based in the London insurance market, Nirvana specializes in media and tech insurance in London and internationally. Nirvana Risk Partners was founded by Rob Jones in 2017 as a trading division within the Castel Underwriting Agencies platform. Nirvana’s underwriting capacity is provided by “A+”-rated Lloyd’s syndicates and insurance company capacity.
Pro MGA Global Solutions offers both entrepreneurial support – including set up, guidance and regulatory oversight that enables MGAs to flourish – together with operational support such as underwriting oversight expertise and regulatory platforms that enable MGAs to trade.
Source: Pro MGA Global Solutions

Topics
Liability
Insurance Wholesale
