Everest Group Ltd., the Bermuda-based property, casualty, and specialty re/insurer, announced that Glen Browne has been appointed to global head of Accident & Health (A&H), effective immediately. Browne will continue to report to Adam Clifford, co-lead of Everest Insurance International.
Browne’s extensive track record of building global A&H businesses and solutions across Europe and Asia Pacific spans more than three decades. He was most recently head of International Corporate Strategy at Everest Insurance. Prior to that, he served as deputy regional president and consumer lines division president at Chubb Asia Pacific, where he led the region’s A&H and personal lines divisions, leveraging long established relationships with third party A&H claims networks and assistance services globally.
Browne also served as country president for ACE Insurance Thailand and as CEO of European Operations for CIGNA where he led the organization’s A&H businesses across the continent. He previously was head of Accident & Health at AIG Far East. Browne holds a Master of Business Administration from Singapore Management University.
Miller Appoints Board From Conduit Re for Reinsurance Team
Miller, the London-based specialist re/insurance broker, announced the appointment of Chris Board to its reinsurance team.
Board brings over 20 years of reinsurance experience covering both property and specialty lines in London, Zurich, Miami and Bermuda. He joins from Conduit Re where he was head of International Property & Short Tail Specialty. Prior to this he held roles at Apollo Syndicate and MS Amlin, where he specialised in international property and specialty. He will initially be based in Bermuda, with plans to join the London office in 2024.
Board’s appointment is part of Miller’s strategic reinsurance build out and follows a number of hires this year across London, Bermuda and APAC. He will report to Charlie Simpson, head of Bermuda.

Topics
Reinsurance
