QBE Re Reports Departure of Postlewhite
QBE announced that Steve Postlewhite, managing director QBE Re, is leaving the company following a four-year tenure.
QBE gave no reason for what it said was Postlewhite’s decision to leave.
Peter Wilkins will assume the role of interim managing director and will oversee QBE Re’s new global alignment strategy and development plans, as previously announced in May 2022.
The company said a search is underway to appoint a new managing director for QBE Re.
Postlewhite was named managing director in 2020, taking over from Jonathan Parry, who retired in 2021.
With more than 20 years’ experience in the industry, Postlewhite joined QBE in November 2018 as deputy global chief underwriting officer of QBE Re in London, as part of a planned succession. Prior to QBE, Postlewhite spent 14 years at Aspen Insurance, where his roles over time included CEO of Aspen Insurance, CEO of Aspen Reinsurance, group chief risk officer and chief actuary. Previously, Postlewhite worked at the UK regulator and at KPMG where he trained and qualified as an actuary.
QBE Re coordinates the underwriting of all of its reinsurance products across all locations in which it operates. In May 2022, Wilkins was appointed to the newly created role of chief underwriting officer for QBE Re taking ownership of underwriting performance, strategy, and planning. As part of the new structure, global product leaders were appointed for each of QBE Re’s lines of business, reporting to Wilkins. These remain: Paul Horgan, property; Tim Barber, casualty; Simon Parkinson, accident and health; Shane Lawlor, specialty, and Bruno Guelle, life.
Lloyd’s Reappoints Carnegie-Brown as Chairman for Third Term
Lloyd’s of London announced the re-appointment of Bruce Carnegie-Brown for a third term as Lloyd’s chairman, effective June 2022 and running to June 2025.
Since his appointment in June 2017, Carnegie-Brown has overseen the corporation’s progress on Lloyd’s four strategic pillars: performance, digitalisation, culture, and purpose.
The Council of Lloyd’s, which supervises the market, initially approved his appointment in February 2017. He succeeded John Nelson, who had announced in 2015 that he would retire.
Prior to joining Lloyd’s, Carnegie-Brown was chairman of Moneysupermarket Group and a vice-chairman of Banco Santander. He was chief executive for Marsh UK and Europe between 2003 and 2006, senior independent director at the Catlin Group Ltd. from 2010-2014, non-executive chairman of Aon UK Ltd from 2012 to 2015 and has been a non-executive director of JLT Group since 2016.
He previously worked at JP Morgan for 18 years across a number of senior roles, worked in private equity at ran 3i Group from 2007 and was a senior independent director at Close Brothers Group from 2006-2014.
“It has been a privilege to serve as Lloyd’s Chairman over the last five years, and I am honoured to be re-appointed. There remains a great deal that we still need to do across the market and Corporation to build on the progress that we have made together in recent years, and I am grateful for the opportunity to continue doing so,” Carnegie-Brown commented in the announcement.
Liberty Specialty Markets Appoints Pavie in France
Liberty Specialty Markets reports the appointment of Charles-Henri Pavie as commercial director. He is responsible for managing the distribution department.
Prior to joining LSM, Pavie worked as a development director at the specialist broker Add Value. He began his career in broking before joining the insurer Hiscox for nine years as a developer underwriter specialising in special risks and then art and private clients. He then spent five years at Chubb as director of private clients and then head of property and health in the property department.

Topics
Excess Surplus
Lloyd's
