This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Intangic MGA, Helvetia Group and BMS.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Startup Intangic MGA Names Marsh’s Durkan as Commercial Director
Intangic MGA, a newly launched, London-based cyber managing general agent (MGA), has announced the appointment of Debbie Durkan as commercial director to drive growth, business development and distribution.
Since Intangic MGA’s launch in March 2023, Durkan has been developing Intangic’s growth and distribution strategy. Based in London, she has been focused on developing relationships with the MGA’s target client base, large PLCs, brokers, and captive managers.
Durkan has more than 25 years’ experience in the insurance market and has held various senior roles in insurance broking firms. She joins from Marsh, where she served most recently as chief client officer for the UK Commercial group and was previously global head of Business Development at Bowring Marsh. Prior to Marsh, Durkan was a senior partner with JLT Group. Durkan also held growth leadership roles at Gallagher.
In March 2023, Intangic MGA launched its cyber parametric policy, CyFi, which offers large public corporates fast recovery from the material impact of cyber breaches. Using a parametric trigger and active monitoring of risk activity, Intangic MGA’s product provides clear protection and avoids payout surprises. CyFi was developed to strengthen rather than replace existing cyber indemnity policies.
Intangic MGA is a data science-driven London-based cyber underwriter, offering innovative new insurance capacity for large public corporations. Intangic MGA Ltd is an affiliated company between Intangic and Acies Management Holdings Ltd. (Acies MGU), which is authorized and regulated by the FCA.
Intangic MGA’s cyber insurance policy, CyFi, provides cover to publicly listed corporations. Our A+ rated capacity (A.M. Best), is backed by AXA XL via AXA XL Insurance Co. UK Ltd (AXICL).
Helvetia Taps Rupprecht From NN Group as Group CEO
Switzerland’s Helvetia Group has named Fabian Rupprecht as chairman of the Executive Management and group CEO, effective Oct. 1, 2023.
During his 28-year career, Rupprecht, who is a German-Swiss dual national, has extensive insurance experience in Helvetia’s key markets and has served as CEO International Insurance and a member of the Management Board at the Dutch NN Group since 2018.
Rupprecht, 53, will succeed Philipp Gmür, who at the end of 2022 announced his departure after 30 years at the Helvetia Group.
Rupprecht previously held various international management roles at AXA Group, including as CEO of the MEA Region (Middle East and Africa) and CFO for Emerging Markets and the Mediterranean Region. He has worked in both the life and non-life insurance sectors.
He studied at WHU – Otto Beisheim School of Management in Koblenz, where he attained a degree in business management with a specialization in finance and controlling.
“With Fabian Rupprecht, we are delighted to have gained an outstanding management figure with extensive experience in the insurance business for the Helvetia Group. In recent years, Fabian Rupprecht has successfully led and further developed the international division of NN Group. His past experience means he is also familiar with the Spain and Switzerland markets, which are important for Helvetia”, commented Thomas Schmuckli, chair of the Board of Directors of Helvetia.
“I would like to take this opportunity to thank Philipp Gmür for his great contribution and the dedication he has shown to successfully developing Helvetia over the past three decades,” said Schmuckli.
The decision on the successor as Group CEO of Helvetia is subject to the approval of the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority (FINMA).
Headquartered in St. Gallen, Switzerland, Helvetia Group, was launched in 1858. It now has more than 12,000 employees and over 7 million customers.
BMS Taps Ardonagh’s Leather as UK and International CFO
BMS, the London-based independent specialist insurance and reinsurance broker, announced the appointment of Morna Leather as chief financial officer of UK and international for BMS, effective summer 2023. Based in London, Leather will report to Nick Moss, group finance director of BMS.
In her role, Leather will support BMS’ UK CEO Ian Gormley, and international CEO Nick Gillett, in their respective roles. With a career spanning more than 25 years, Leather joins BMS from her most recent position as chief financial officer of Ardonagh Global Partners. Prior to this, she held several senior roles at RFIB, including chief financial officer and head of corporate strategy. Leather was also head of finance projects at Aon Benfield and a senior manager at PwC.

Topics
InsurTech
Commercial Lines
Insurance Wholesale
