Acrisure, a fintech company that operates a top-10 global insurance broker, announced the formation of Acrisure Deutschland GmbH, a new subsidiary covering the German, Austrian and Swiss markets.
Mathias Pahl will serve as president of Acrisure Deutschland GmbH and head of DACH (Germany, Austria and Switzerland) with immediate effect. Pahl is based in Munich and reports to Jason Howard, president of Acrisure International and chairman of Acrisure Re.
With three decades of experience in the insurance industry, Pahl joins Acrisure from Willis Towers Watson where he spent 19 years managing its German division, most recently as CEO of Willis Germany and Austria. In his new role, Pahl will be responsible for building out property/casualty operations including through potential acquisitions.
“We are rapidly expanding in our target geographies and the DACH region is a market with incredible potential and opportunity. Launching Acrisure Deutschland GmbH will give Acrisure and our partners direct access to the Central European markets and we look forward to further growth across the region,” Howard said.
“Acrisure is the fastest growing Insurance broker in industry history and continues to innovate, transform and differentiate from other players in the market,” Pahl said. “Its extensive network offers incredible opportunity for its broking partners to access global markets. I look forward to working with Jason and the broader team as we build Acrisure’s presence in Central Europe.”
About Acrisure
In the last nine years, Acrisure has grown in revenue from $38 million to nearly $4 billion and today employs over 14,000 colleagues in 21 countries.

Topics
Europe
Germany
