NFP, an Aon company and insurance brokerage, announced its acquisition of Orca Financial Group, a specialist financial brokerage based in Leopardstown, County Dublin.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
The Orca team will join NFP’s employee benefits and wealth management businesses in Ireland, and John Molloy, currently managing director of Orca, will retain the same title with NFP.
Orca Financial Group was founded in 2004 to enhance the service delivery model across the pension market. In the past two decades, they have seen considerable growth, organically and through acquisitions and now provide specialist financial support to over 2,000 clients across Ireland from their offices in Leopardstown and Portlaoise.
“We’re delighted to add the Orca team’s skill and experience to our already strong employee benefits and wealth management businesses,” said Colm Power, managing director, NFP in Ireland. “John and his team will allow us to offer a more diverse portfolio of specialist solutions to our clients, and their knowledge will drive innovation and future growth for NFP in Ireland.”
“There’s been a growing demand from Irish employers to access a full range of pension and wealth solutions from one brokerage firm,” said Molloy. “We’re excited about working with Colm and the growing NFP team in Ireland to meet this demand. Joining NFP will mean added value for our existing and future customers through the greater range of solutions and services available to us as part of NFP.”

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
