Melvin Appointed President and CEO, BMS Re, US
BMS Re, the specialty reinsurance arm of global broker BMS Group headquartered in New York City, appointed Brad Melvin president and chief executive officer, BMS Re, U.S., effective November.
Melvin will lead BMS Re US operations. He previously held executive leadership and client development roles at Gen Re, CNA Financial, and, most recently, at AON Reinsurance Solutions, where he was president of the U.S. regional insurer group and global insurance vertical leader. He has also been a member of AON Re’s global executive committee and leadership team and AON corporation’s executive leadership team.
Melvin’s appointment is subject to regulatory approval. In the interim, Group CEO Nick Cook and Andrew Wheeler will continue to lead the business, supported by the U.S. EXCO and Group COO Chris Brook.
AXA XL Names Rawal Chief Underwriting Officer for Middle Market, Canada
AXA XL, headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut, appointed Arti Rawal as chief underwriting officer, middle market, Canada. Rawal leads the newly established middle market team in Canada and reports to Matthew Waters, head of middle market, Americas. She is based in Toronto.
Rawal joins AXA XL from Zurich Canada, where she was vice president, middle market, for the Ontario region. With more than 20 years’ experience in the industry, Rawal has served in a variety of roles and lines of business – including construction, excess/surplus and middle market – in the U.S. and Canada with CNA Insurance and Travelers Canada. Rawal will work closely with Alex Barker, who was named chief underwriting officer, large commercial, Canada, earlier this year.
QBE Canada Appoints Fenn as Multinational Underwriting Manager
QBE Canada, headquartered in Toronto, appointed Caroline Fenn to the newly created role of multinational underwriting manager.
Fenn most recently served as assistant vice president and executive underwriter at Liberty Mutual Canada. Previous roles include vice president and underwriting manager for Aon Risk Solutions.
Based in Toronto, Fenn facilitates the placement of multinational programs across various underwriting teams and product lines within the Canadian branch. She also manages and oversees multinational placements across all lines of business where QBE Canada acts as the servicing office.






Topics
USA
Commercial Lines
Business Insurance
Underwriting
Canada
AXA XL
