Howden has launched a marine and energy business in Norway, led by Frode Lund from Willis Towers Watson, who will drive growth of the new initiative across the Nordic region.
Frode will join Howden on Aug. 1, 2023, once he fulfills his contractual obligations with Willis Towers Watson (WTW), where he currently is WTW’s executive director of Marine & Energy (Oil & Gas).
Prior to this role, he was based in Dubai as WTW’s regional practice leader, Marine.
Trading as Howden Norway & Marine Energy AS, the business will form part of the local Howden broking operations and will work closely with Howden’s international Marine & Energy Specialty teams.
Howden first established its operations in Norway in 2013, and since then has expanded its headcount to 50 employees in Oslo and Bergen through organic growth and selective acquisitions.
The new business is part of Howden’s ambitious growth strategy in the Nordic region, where it has a leading position in power and renewables. It represents a significant investment in one of the world’s leading marine and energy markets, Howden said.
“The establishment of a Marine and Energy business, led by seasoned industry specialist Frode, will further enhance our current capabilities and provide value-added services, particularly in the fast growing energy transition and renewables sector,” commented Anders Kvan, CEO of Howden Norway.
“As part of Howden’s global growth strategy for our Marine & Energy capabilities, establishing a business in Norway was a logical next step. Utilising the significant expertise we possess, and with the support of Frode, we will continue to provide clients with a tailored and high-quality experience,” according to Daniel Whiteside, managing director and global head of Marine, Howden.
Source: Howden

Topics
New Markets
Willis Towers Watson
