This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Willis Towers Watson (WTW), Tokio Marine Kiln (TMK), and HDI Global.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
WTW Names Aon’s Day as Head of Int’l Property
Insurance broker WTW announced the appointment of Ed Day as head of International Property, reporting to Garret Gaughan, head of Direct & Facultative, WTW, and based in London.
Formerly EMEA Strategic Broking director at Aon as well as a former partner at JLT Specialty / Marsh, Day has extensive experience in managing multinational accounts as well as delivering complex placement solutions. Day will be responsible for risk solution development on behalf of clients, as well as leading a globally connected team, working closely with geography property leaders.
“We are delighted to welcome Ed to the WTW team. He brings extensive industry experience and his appointment coincides with the ongoing expansion of our global Property & Casualty business,” commented Gaughan. “Ed joins us at an incredibly exciting time for our global property & casualty business, as we continue to solidify our proposition and support our clients with innovative solutions. Ed’s appointment demonstrates our on-going commitment to recruiting the best talent to support our property & casualty colleagues around the globe.”
Tokio Marine Kiln Hires Spyropoulos From Lloyd’s as Asia Regional MD
Tokio Marine Kiln (TMK) announced the appointment of Pavlos Spyropoulos as regional managing director for Asia. Spyropoulos joins from Lloyd’s Asia where he was CEO.
In 2014, Spyropoulos relocated to Singapore to assume responsibility for Lloyd’s Asia’s market development and became Lloyd’s CEO of Lloyd’s Asia and country manager of Singapore in July 2020. He is also an executive committee member of the Singapore Reinsurers’ Association. He has played an integral part in driving the strategic direction, promotion and oversight of Lloyd’s in Singapore as well as promoting Lloyd’s in the broader ASEAN region.
Spyropoulos will be assuming the role from Alex Dugand who is returning home to London to take up the position of international development officer. Dugand will report to Matthew Shaw, CUO, and will support the executive team in the delivery of TMK’s underwriting and operational strategy.
Dugand moved to Singapore to take up the post as regional underwriting director in 2016, before becoming regional managing director in 2018. In that time, the profitability of the company has increased significantly, and he has established an expert team which is focused on delivering an ambitious five-year vision for continued success.
HDI Global Mexico Announces Management Changes
HDI Global SE announced management changes at its operations in Mexico. Effective April 4, 2022, Omar Mendoza Lizaola will join HDI Global Mexico as managing director. At the same time, German Cardenas will assume the role of executive operations director.
Mendoza Lizaola has 24 years of expertise in the local commercial insurance industry. He joins HDI Global from his long career at Chubb (formerly ACE) where he was in charge of Marine and Specialty business in North LATAM. From 2016 until 2020 he was director of the same lines of business at Chubb in Brazil. His proven strengths are in portfolio development and optimization combined with a collaborative management approach. Omar holds a bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering and a Master of Business Administration.
Cardenas joined the HDI Group more than 25 years ago and has transformed HDI Global Mexico into a successful hub for HDI’s business in the LATAM region and into a profitable local carrier.
“Mexico is a growth market for us. With Omar Mendoza we are adding a lot of local and global insurance market expertise to our team and positioning us well for our strategic growth plans in the Mexican market,” said David Hullin, member of the Management Board of HDI Global SE and responsible for the regions Europe (not including Germany) and North and South America. “While we welcome Omar to our group, we also thank German very much for his excellent work over so many years and we count on his continuous contribution as Director of Operations.”
Both management changes are subject to the approval of the responsible regulatory authorities.

Topics
Excess Surplus
Maryland
Lloyd's
Property
Aon
Mexico
Willis Towers Watson
