Insurance broker Lockton announced a collaboration initiative with the food science company Campden BRI, a leading food science company, to support the food and drink industry and provide key risk mitigation and management support in the face of an evolving risk landscape.
In recent years, the food and drink industry has faced a myriad of threats from supply chain disruption and spiraling costs to the impact of inflation, scarcity of crucial resources, labor shortages, and changes in both regulations and consumer demands, said Lockton.
Expert insight and risk management solutions are imperative in helping food and drink businesses meet these challenges, build resilience, and continue to trade successfully.
Lockton said it will become a member of Campden BRI and will also collaborate on various key topics and research initiatives. The first of those initiatives is a new position paper that seeks to address the growing global problem of food fraud, which is exacerbated by the recent supply chain frictions and raw ingredient shortages.
The alignment of Campden BRI’s world-renowned expertise in food science and safety, with Lockton’s in-depth understanding of the current and emerging risks that businesses face, will see the pair share insights and build solutions for the food and drink industry.
“With thousands of members in the UK and around the world, Campden BRI is the leading and most trusted technical partner for the food and drink industry, and we are proud to collaborate with them to enhance our shared understanding and solutions for the sector,” commented Luke Withers, Lockton’s Food and Drink Industry leader in the UK.
Bertrand Emond, Membership Ambassador from Campden BRI, said: “We are excited to have Lockton as a member and to collaborate with them on critical issues for the industry. Their specialist understanding of the risks the industry faces and their global expertise in mitigation measures add great value to our membership.”
With over 3,000 member companies in 80 countries, Campden BRI, based in Chipping Campden, UK, is the independent technical partner of choice for the food and drink industry, working with all of the top 10 UK retailers, the top 15 global food and drink manufacturers and many of the world’s biggest brands. Leveraging its 250-plus technical experts in the UK and Europe, it helps to make food safer, tastier, healthier, affordable, sustainable, convenient and innovative, underpinned by investment in meaningful research and science.
Campden BRI offers an extensive range of services and products including consultancy, analysis and testing, processing and manufacturing troubleshooting and advice, training and legislation, regulatory and labelling advisory services. Members and clients benefit from industry-leading facilities for analysis, product and process development and sensory and consumer studies, which include a specialist brewing and wine division.
Source: Lockton