Aston Lark Ireland, a Howden company, announced it has agreed terms to acquire Kegra Ltd., (trading as Finance Solutions), a Dublin-based mortgage broking specialist.
Terms of the acquisition, which is subject to regulatory approval, were not disclosed.
Founded in 2011 by Ken Murray, Finance Solutions is an owner-managed financial services intermediary that specializes in mortgage broking, as well as tailored financial solutions such as life cover, income protection, investments, and pensions.
With 40 members of staff, the business serves approximately 7,000 clients and has won multiple awards, having scooped the Brokers Ireland Mortgage Broker Expert award for the last three years in a row.
Howden, the international insurance broker, acquired SPF Private Clients (SPF), one of the UK’s leading mortgage brokers, in 2023. While Finance Solutions will sit within the Howden Ireland structure, the brokers will work closely with SPF to develop their offering.
“I’m delighted to welcome Ken and all the team at Finance Solutions on board. Finance Solutions is a stand-out business in its sector, highly regarded as one of the best mortgage brokers in Ireland, and passionate about delivering the very best outcomes for clients,” commented Robert Kennedy, Aston Lark Ireland CEO. “Their reputation and shared value of care, for their clients and their people, make them a fantastic addition to the Aston Lark and Howden business.”
“Our growth over the past 12 years has exceeded expectations, and this acquisition allows us to further accelerate that growth. It is a significant milestone for Finance Solutions and will cement our position as one of Ireland’s leading mortgage brokers,” according to Ken Murray, founder and managing director of Finance Solutions.
Source: Aston Lark Ireland

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
