This edition of International People Moves details appointments at RenaissanceRe and AXIS Capital Holdings.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
RenaissanceRe Promotes Lang to Group Chief Risk Officer, Succeeding Branagan
RenaissanceRe Holdings Ltd. announced that Robin Lang will assume the role of group chief risk officer on a permanent basis on Sept. 1, 2023. Lang has been RenaissanceRe’s interim chief risk officer since April 2023 and will succeed Ian Branagan in the role. Branagan is currently on compassionate leave, and going forward will serve as a senior advisor to the Company.
“Robin is a deeply knowledgeable risk practitioner, bringing over two decades of experience with RenaissanceRe focused on global risk management, risk governance, and external supervision. We are pleased to promote Robin into the important role of group chief risk officer, and I look forward to continuing to work with him as we advance our best-in-class risk culture,” commented Kevin O’Donnell, president and chief executive officer of RenaissanceRe.
“Ian’s contributions to RenaissanceRe’s success and culture over his approximately 25 years with the company have been immense. He was instrumental in developing our Integrated System and has long been committed to connecting data, technology and people to advance our view of risk and progress our strategy,” O’Donnell continued.
“More broadly, Ian has been a leading industry advocate for innovative solutions to close both the knowledge and protection gap in vulnerable communities. Our thoughts are with Ian as he focuses on his family, and we look forward to continuing to benefit from his wise counsel in his role as a senior adviser.”
Lang will continue to be based in RenaissanceRe’s London office and will be responsible for global risk management and governance, including external supervision.
Established in 1993, the RenaissanceRe has offices in Bermuda, Australia, Ireland, Singapore, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the US.
AXIS Taps Former Corvus Exec as Head of Global Cyber & Technology
AXIS Capital Holdings Ltd. announced the appointment of Lori Bailey as head of Cyber and Technology. Bailey reports to Mark Gregory, head of Global Markets, and is based in New York.
In her new role, Bailey will oversee the company’s Global Cyber and Technology team and is responsible for shaping the division’s strategy, driving its profitability and growth goals, leading the global team, and further enhancing customer relationships.
She succeeds Dan Trueman and, in the months ahead, Bailey and Trueman will work together to ensure a smooth transition.
Bailey joined AXIS in June 2023 as global head of Growth within the Global Cyber and Technology team. Prior to joining AXIS, she served as chief insurance officer at cyber-focused MGA Corvus where she led the risk capital and capital procurement strategy and was responsible for actuarial, catastrophe modeling and captive management. She previously held senior positions at Zurich Insurance Group, leading the professional liability, specialty lines and cyber underwriting functions globally. She also held underwriting and client advisory roles at AIG and Marsh.
“Lori is a highly regarded leader within the Cyber space and is exceptionally well-suited to run our industry-recognized Global Cyber and Technology business. She brings an established track record of leading teams, driving profitable business growth, and building strong customer relationships,” commented Gregory.
“We are deeply appreciative to Dan for his significant contributions to AXIS and we wish him the best as he begins a new chapter,” he added.

Topics
Cyber
Tech
