This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Aon and Zurich Insurance.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Aon Names UK Leaders for Reinsurance Solutions
Insurance broker Aon plc outlined the new simplified structure of its Reinsurance Solutions UK leadership which aims to put clients at the heart of its growth strategy and drive internal collaboration.
The structure sees Richard Wheeler and Tom Murray named co-leaders of Global Re Specialty (GRS), working alongside Mark Skilton as chair of the team. Based in London, Wheeler, Murray and Skilton will all report to Rupert Moore, UK CEO for Reinsurance Solutions.
The GRS executive committee will comprise Fred Streeton, head of the specialty client segment; Anshuman Srivastava, head of the reinsurer client segment; and Ben Love, strategic growth leader, as well as Don Magee, Reinsurance Solutions’ UK chairman; Jeremy Goodman, Reinsurance Solutions’ UK president, and Rupert Moore.
In addition, James Milne has been named head of UK, and will lead a newly combined UK & Ireland property, casualty, and motor business.
The new UK leadership structure represents a simplified model that aims to deliver enhanced value more efficiently to clients, helping them to make better business decisions.
“We continue to build a single coordinated team aligned around our clients. Product expertise delivered through a holistic client team enables us to further enhance our ability to help our clients succeed in the market,” Moore said. “This new structure is designed to empower our leaders, and highlights Aon’s focus on building talent and skills that respond to client demand.”
Zurich Announces Key Leadership Roles for APAC Commercial Insurance
Zurich Insurance Group announced key leadership appointments for its Asia Pacific Commercial Insurance business to strengthen regional go-to-market capabilities and drive expansion in key Asian markets.
Sean Walker has been appointed head of Commercial Insurance and chief technical officer, APAC. Liam Burrell will join Zurich as head of Commercial Insurance, Asia, and Reginald Peacock has been appointed head of Marketing Development for Zurich Resilience Solutions.
Walker will spearhead the development of the regional Commercial unit as head of Commercial Insurance and chief technical officer, APAC. Walker brings more than 25 years of diverse industry experience having held a variety of market-facing, underwriting, leadership, and broker roles during his insurance career. He joined Zurich in 2010, taking on several senior roles within the business in underwriting, claims, distribution and partnerships, and was most recently head of General Insurance, Australia and New Zealand.
Separately, Zurich Australia has announced that Alex Morgan will succeed Walker as head of General Insurance, Australia and New Zealand. Morgan has been with Zurich since 2012 and was most recently chief risk officer for Asia Pacific.
Burrell will join Zurich as the Head of Commercial Insurance Asia and CEO, Singapore, subject to regulatory approvals. Burrell joins Zurich from AIG where he was most recently head of Client & Broker Engagement, APAC, responsible for developing and executing on the company’s distribution strategies and fostering relationships with partners and clients.
Prior to joining AIG, he was division head of Property & Casualty in Singapore for Chubb, during which he held full responsibility for all aspects of the company’s underwriting operations across the CI P/C lines of business. With over 20 years of experience in the insurance industry, Burrell brings with him extensive market-leading expertise in underwriting and distribution, as well as a solid track record of developing high-performing teams and long-term customer relationships.
Peacock has been appointed head of Market Development for Zurich Resilience Solutions, with a specific focus on strengthening the presence and distribution of this offering in Asia Pacific. Providing tailored risk prevention and mitigation solutions based on relevant data, tools, and insights, Zurich Resilience Solutions was created in 2021 to meet growing demand from businesses looking to improve their risk profile and optimize risk management. Peacock brings more than 35 years of insurance experience to the role, a deep understanding of the Asia Pacific market, and a proven history of building successful businesses. According to his LinkedIn profile, he has held various leadership positions with Zurich for more than 15 years.

Topics
Commercial Lines
Business Insurance
New Markets
Reinsurance
Leadership
Aon
