This edition of International People Moves details appointments at QBE’s International Markets division and Howden’s DUAL.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
QBE Names Shallow to Executive Director for International Markets
QBE announced the appointment of Kevin Shallow to the role of executive director, International Markets (IM).
Shallow is currently director of Marine, based in the UK, a role he has held since 2022.
His role will encompass Lloyd’s and company market operations across International Markets, with operations in London, Singapore, Dubai, Canada and the US. He will take responsibility as joint active underwriter of Syndicate 2999.
Subject to regulatory approvals, Shallow will commence his new role on March 4.
He joined QBE in 2005 and has more than 18 years’ experience in the industry, including time spent in Singapore developing QBE’s Asian marine business.
He also developed QBE’s portfolio solutions underwriting unit in the London market and managed it until 2022, driving significant growth.
DUAL UK Taps Allianz’s Dixon as CUO, AXA’s Corner as Chief Distribution Officer
DUAL UK, the specialist underwriting arm of Howden Group, announced the appointments of Catherine Dixon as chief underwriting officer and Rob Corner as chief distribution officer. Corner joins the business in May and Dixon will join in June, both reporting to Simon McGinn, CEO, DUAL UK.
In January 2024, Catherine Farnworth joined as chief actuary, DUAL UK & Europe.
These appointments are designed to further strengthen the UK leadership team as the business positions itself to drive significant expansion in the UK.
Dixon brings over 30 years’ experience in the Commercial SME and mid-corporate insurance sector, most recently as CUO of Allianz’s Commercial business in the UK. Corner has over 10 year’s industry experience including nine years at Allianz and, most recently, was a regional director for AXA. Farnworth was previously group chief risk officer at IQUW and held leadership roles at MS Amlin and MS Frontier Reinsurance after starting her career at PwC.
“Catherine Farnworth’s focus is to further build out our actuarial capabilities in the UK and Europe, with a focus on pricing and underwriting profitability. She is part of both the UK and Europe leadership teams,” McGinn commented.
“The new role of chief distribution officer is absolutely critical to our growth plans and Rob will be responsible for coordinating with our distribution partners and helping us grow into the retail market space as well as London market, specialty and existing businesses,” he added.
“Catherine Dixon’s key areas of focus will be to ensure our underwriting, governance and approach to market reflect our position as a leading insurance provider. She will also work closely with our group and regional CUOs aligning the UK with our wider group strategy,” McGinn said.
DUAL, the specialist underwriting arm of Howden Group, is one of the world’s largest international managing general underwriters with US$3.2 billion of GWP. Established in 1998, today DUAL has over 1,600 people in 21 countries across the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific, and is one of Lloyd’s’ largest international coverholders.

Topics
Allianz
AXA XL
