This edition of International People Moves details appointments at re/insurer Sompo and the re/insurance broker BMS.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Sompo Promotes Allen as CUO of Global Markets Commercial P&C Insurance, Succeeding Easton
Sompo, the provider of property, casualty, and specialty re/insurance, announced the appointment of Richard “Rick” Allen as chief underwriting officer (CUO) for its Global Markets Commercial P&C insurance business. He is based in the London office and will continue to report to Julian James, CEO Global Markets, Sompo.
Allen was previously EVP, Commercial P&C Insurance and professional lines product leader, Global Markets. He takes over from Cliff Easton, who has decided to retire and will serve in an advisory capacity.
In his new role, Allen will work closely with the commercial P&C insurance chief underwriting officers across the UK, Continental Europe, Asia Pacific, Turkey and Brazil while ensuring congruence with Sompo’s overall underwriting strategy. He will also have oversight of underwriting governance and risk controls and set underwriting policy for Global Markets’ commercial P&C insurance business.
“Rick’s appointment is an example of Sompo’s leadership bench strength and our desire to promote talent from within. He has been with the company for nearly a decade in different product and management roles, giving him a keen view of our business. An exceptional leader with more than 25 years of industry experience, Rick brings underwriting expertise, discipline and technical skills to this pivotal role,” commented James.
James went on to Easton for his contributions – as CUO for these past four years and for being “a tremendous business partner and leader.”
“With a career that spans 50 years, he joined the company in 2014 to establish a London market underwriting presence and he has been instrumental in shaping our business into what it is today,” James said.
BMS Taps Howden’s Leahy as Cyber Practice Co-Leader
BMS, the London-based independent specialist re/insurance broker, announced the appointment of Daniel Leahy as cyber practice divisional director. He will co-lead BMS’ cyber practice alongside fellow divisional director Simon Meech and will report to BMS cyber strategy director, Monica Tigleanu. Based in London, Leahy will join in September.
A respected cyber broker who has worked in the London market for almost a decade, Leahy joins from Howden, where he was divisional director of cyber & technology, and brings extensive knowledge of the cyber insurance market. Prior to Howden, Leahy worked in the cyber & technology team at Miller Insurance Services LLP.
Leahy’s appointment marks a continuation of BMS’ growth in the cyber insurance market and will enable the division to further diversify its client coverage, helping BMS continue to reshape the client experience and make risk transfer as seamless as possible for risk managers and chief information security officers.
“Dan will work closely with our colleagues in other specialty lines including healthcare, energy and financial lines to deliver comprehensive client solutions. This is the next step in our commitment to build a team that differentiates us in the market and exceeds our clients’ expectations,” commented Tigleanu.

Topics
Cyber
Commercial Lines
Business Insurance
Leadership
Property Casualty
