Singapore-based insurtech bolttech announced its expansion into the Middle East with the launch of its partnership with telecommunications company stc Group.
bolttech’s collaboration with Riyadh, Saudi Arabia-headquartered stc will provide stc’s customers with embedded device protection offerings through a technology-enabled experience.
bolttech and stc will also explore expanding the partnership to embed Internet of Things-enabled solutions beyond mobile devices into other aspects of a customer’s digital lifestyle, including protection for home appliances, health electronics, and cyber assets.
“stc Group is an ambitious digital leader, always striving to offer innovative solutions to their customers,” commented Rob Schimek, group chief executive officer of bolttech, in a statement.
“Their aspirations align perfectly with ours, and together with their well-established presence in the Middle East, they are an ideal partner for our launch into the region. We are excited to work together with stc Group to help their customers safeguard their valued devices to ensure an uninterrupted digital lifestyle,” Schimek added.
About bolttech and stc Group
bolttech powers connections between insurers, distributors, and customers to make it easier and more efficient to buy and sell insurance and protection products.
stc Group group provides a comprehensive suite of services encompassing digital infrastructure, cloud computing, cybersecurity, IoT, digital payments, digital media, and digital entertainment. The group comprises over 13 subsidiaries across the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the Middle East, North Africa, and Europe.
Source: bolttech

Topics
InsurTech
Tech
