This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Hamilton Insurance DAC, the Irish subsidiary of Hamilton Insurance Group, and Dale Underwriting Partners in London.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Hamilton Insurance DAC Promotes Reynolds as CEO
Hamilton Insurance DAC, the Irish designated activity company of Hamilton Insurance Group Ltd., announced that Ross Reynolds has been appointed as chief executive officer, subject to regulatory approval.
Reynolds replaces Fiona Marry who will be departing from the company.
Reynolds is based in Dublin and will report to Adrian Daws, chief executive officer of Hamilton Global Specialty. Reynolds will also join the board of Hamilton Insurance DAC, which is registered in Ireland and regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland.
Reynolds has been with Hamilton since 2014, having joined during the company’s 2019 acquisition of Ironshore Europe DAC. At Hamilton, he most recently served as global head of Operations from 2021 and, before that, global head of Financial Planning & Analysis (FP&A) from 2019. Before Ironshore, Reynolds started his career with Irish Progressive Services International, followed by Zurich Insurance Co. Reynolds is a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Accountants.
At the same time and subject to regulatory approval, Matthew Saunders has been appointed, on an interim basis, as chief underwriting officer of Hamilton Insurance DAC, reporting to Reynolds.
“I am very pleased to congratulate Ross on his promotion to CEO of Hamilton Insurance DAC,” said Daws. “He brings extensive experience and a strong track record of leadership and operational excellence. Having worked closely with Ross, I have full confidence in his ability to lead our Dublin based team.
Hamilton is a Bermuda-headquartered specialty insurance and reinsurance company that underwrites risks on a global basis through its wholly owned subsidiaries. Its three underwriting platforms are Hamilton Global Specialty, Hamilton Select and Hamilton Re.
Dale Underwriting Partners Names Bridge as Active Underwriter, Succeeding Peters
Dale Underwriting Partners, the trading name for Dale Managing Agency Ltd.’s Lloyd’s Syndicate 1729, has appointed Ian Bridge as active underwriter, subject to regulatory approval.
Bridge’s promotion from deputy active underwriter, follows Dominic Peters’ decision to step down as active underwriter, with effect from June 7, 2024.
Bridge started his career in 1993 with Syndicate 939 where he worked in reinsurance. He then went to Syndicate 1227 which was set up to reinsure the liabilities of Orphan Syndicates. In 1998 he went to work with Syndicate 1239 on its worldwide direct & facultative portfolio which was eventually merged into Markel Syndicate 3000. In 2003 he left to take over the Faraday Direct and facultative property account where he was latterly head of Property Insurance.
Peters joined Dale in January 2021, and since then Syndicate 1729 has grown from £185 million stamp capacity to £350 million and received regulatory approval for Dale Managing Agency Ltd. in October 2022, where Peters served as active underwriter and board director.
“We are delighted that Ian will take on the role of active underwriter at Dale,” said Duncan Dale, founder and chief executive of Dale. “Ian has been with us at Dale for nearly 10 years and his experience in the market will be of great importance for the company as we look to continue to develop and execute our strategic growth plans.”

Topics
Underwriting
