HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) has launched a new insurance platform in Canada which delivers general aviation policies to brokers in minutes.
The platform, called “Aviation IQ” delivers end-to-end digital automation of general aviation insurance policies covering small fixed-wing aircraft flown for private business or pleasure.
Initially launched in 2020, Aviation IQ is already in use in the specialty lines insurer’s Australian and New Zealand business.
The platform provides placing brokers with policy documents in a matter of minutes, said HDI.
“Aviation IQ comes to the Canadian market following a successful roll-out in Australia and New Zealand. It offers brokers a quick and efficient full insurance life cycle platform for general aviation policies,” commented Michael McEwen, head of Aviation at HDI’s Canada branch.
“Our experience with the Aviation IQ platform shows us that we can now provide faster responses to brokers, more flexibility in terms of product offering, pricing and usability, streamlining traditional methods of placement and management of general aviation insurance policies,” added McEwen.
About HDI Global Specialty
HDI Global Specialty SE is a specialty lines insurer, owned by HDI Global SE, which is part of the Talanx Group. HDI Global Specialty’s focus is on writing agency and specialty insurance business with operations in nine locations and access to a global network of more than 175 countries through the HDI Global SE network. Approximately 4.300 employees in this division generated gross written premiums of approximately €7.6 billion in the year 2021.
Source: HDI Global Specialty

Topics
Excess Surplus
Aviation
New Markets
Canada
