This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Everest Insurance, Hub International and Canopius.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Everest Insurance Names Chubb’s Browne Head of International Corporate Strategy
Everest Insurance, the insurance division of Everest Re Group, Ltd., the property, casualty, and specialty re/insurer, announced that Glen Browne has joined the company as head of International Corporate Strategy.
Based in Singapore, Browne will report to Everest Insurance International co-leads Adam Clifford and Jason Keen.
In this new role, Browne will work closely with the company’s global leadership team to continue its expansion into new markets, build new distribution channels, and further broaden Everest’s suite of innovative product offerings designed to meet local market needs.
Browne brings three decades of international insurance experience to Everest, having held executive leadership positions at some of the world’s largest insurance companies. Browne spent the past decade in executive positions within Chubb’s Asia Pacific operations, including deputy regional president and president of the Consumer Lines Division.
Prior to that, he was country president for ACE Insurance Thailand, CEO of European Operations for CIGNA, and has also held Asia Pacific regional leadership roles at AIG and Prudential. Browne holds a Master of Business Administration from Singapore Management University.
Hub Int’l Strengthens P/C, Life Team in Puerto Rico With Del Rio Hire
Hub International Ltd., a leading global insurance brokerage and financial services firm, announced it has hired property/casualty (P/C), life and disability insurance specialist Alberto Del Rio and acquired his book of business.
Based in San Juan, Puerto Rico, Del Rio brings more than 11 years of experience in P/C, life and disability insurance. His addition will complement and strengthen Hub’s P/C and life capabilities. Del Rio will join the Hub Puerto Rico region.
Canopius Launches MedMal Biz With Appointment of Moulton From Coverys
Canopius Group, the global specialty re/insurer, has announced the launch of its medical malpractice business with the appointment of Ashley Moulton as healthcare underwriter.
Moulton brings more than a decade of medical malpractice, life sciences and liability experience to her new role. She joins from Coverys Syndicate 1975 where she was responsible for the rapid growth of the life sciences binder book and the build of the US medical malpractice portfolio. Prior to this, she served as an underwriter in CFC Underwriting’s life sciences division. Moulton began her career at QBE in 2011, where she progressed to an international liability underwriter.
Canopius’ new medical malpractice business will underwrite a combination of international healthcare risks, with a focus on the US market. Moulton will be joined by further new appointments in due course with ambitious growth targets set for the new offering.

Topics
Chubb
