Devonshire UW Ltd. and its affiliate Devonshire UW Europe GmbH (known collectively as “Devonshire Underwriting”) announced the launch of a managing general agent specializing in transactional risk solutions.
Focused on positively disrupting the transaction risk insurance market, the MGA will be led by four experienced founders and partners – Natasha Attray, James Dodd, James Fletcher and Charles Turnham – who are highly-respected specialists in this sector with a collective 30 years of transactional liability underwriting experience as well as over 15 years of professional experience in law and tax.
The company, which is backed by Lloyd’s and a strong panel of A-rated insurance capacity providers, will provide intelligent, sophisticated solutions for large legal risk deals for brokers, corporates, private equity firms, professional advisers and other specialist investors, Devonshire said.
Devonshire’s products comprise warranty & indemnity (W&I), tax and contingency insurance, with a particular focus on a streamlined, responsive underwriting process that embraces creativity and best-in-class service.
Headquartered in London, Devonshire will underwrite transactions in the UK, Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia, South America, Central America, Australasia and beyond. The company is able to deploy an automatic per-risk line size of up to €35 million pursuant to the terms of the delegated authority from its insurance partners.
Devonshire has received the backing of B.P. Marsh & Partners PLC, the specialist private equity investor in early-stage financial services business. B.P. Marsh has a strong track record of supporting insurance intermediaries such Devonshire in achieving their growth aspirations.
“We are pleased to be making this investment in Devonshire, founded by an experienced team of specialists. We are looking forward to working with the team, to enable Devonshire to deliver on their business plan over the coming years,” commented Dan Topping, chief investment officer of B.P. Marsh.
Founders Comment on Launch
“We are incredibly proud to launch Devonshire and believe we will distinguish ourselves through our collective blend of experience and technical expertise with over 30 years of experience in this market,” according to Natasha Attray, partner, Devonshire. “We believe that our proven execution capability and entrepreneurial approach will allow us to offer our clients and brokers an exciting and fresh source of TR solutions.”
Attray is a qualified tax practitioner who joined the M&A insurance market in 2018 and has more than five years of experience underwriting bespoke tax specific products as well as tax issues within W&I deals. Before underwriting tax risks, she worked in the M&A tax team at KPMG in London advising on tax matters across a diverse range of sectors.
“Our aspiration is to be a market-leading, trusted TR underwriter focusing on challenging legal risks, respected for our deep expertise and execution record, and valued as a key strategic partner for our brokers and clients,” said James Dodd, partner, Devonshire. “Through our agile structure, experience and subject-matter expertise, we believe that we are ideally placed to deliver reliable, responsive solutions for the most demanding TR insurance requirements.”
Dodd is a qualified lawyer who trained and qualified with a number of leading US firms in London, including Weil and Shearman & Sterling. He has over seven years’ experience of underwriting W&I and specific contingency risk exposures with particular expertise in major cross-border transactions and high-value emerging markets deals.
“There is strong momentum in the TR market as a result of many years of resilient M&A activity and a significant upward trajectory in the use of TR products. We are seeing a clear demand for a fresh approach to underwriting and bespoke service as the TR market and the applications of the products continue to evolve,” said James Fletcher, partner, Devonshire. “We have strong relationships with brokers across all major jurisdictions and the team incorporates all of the key professional disciplines required for strong underwriting performance within W&I, tax and contingency.”
Fletcher is one of the most experienced W&I underwriters in the market, having over 12 years’ experience underwriting W&I risks. He has led many major W&I insurance placements with particular expertise in real estate, energy and infrastructure risks.
Charles Turnham, partner, Devonshire, said: “At the heart of our business is our ability to demonstrate a responsive, pragmatic approach to broker and client management, policy negotiations and deal timetables which are often extremely tight. This is particularly important in the fast-paced TR market where swift and efficient decision-making is crucial to ensure effective and positive outcomes for brokers and clients. We are particularly excited to be working in partnership with our investor B.P. Marsh and our insurers.”
Turnham has over eight years’ experience of underwriting W&I and specific contingency risks and has led many major insurance placements for both products. Prior to entering the transactional risk insurance market, he worked as an M&A lawyer for two major firms in the City of London.
Devonshire operates in the UK and underwrites transactions in the UK, Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia, South America, Central America, Australasia and beyond.
Source: Devonshire Underwriting

Topics
Underwriting
Insurance Wholesale
