This edition of International People Moves details appointments at FM Global and MAPFRE and MAPFRE RE.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
FM Global Names Tadmoury to Lead EMEA, APAC, Canada and Specialty
Commercial property insurer FM Global has appointed Ziad Alex S. Tadmoury executive vice president, overseeing operations for EMEA, Asia Pacific, Canada and specialty industries. He will also have responsibility for AFM, FM Global’s middle market insurance division.
Currently senior vice president, division manager of AFM, Tadmoury will assume his new role on Jan. 1, 2024, reporting to Bret Ahnell, FM Global’s chief operating officer. He will be based in FM Global’s London office. Tadmoury will take over the role from James R. Galloway, who will retire on Dec. 31, 2023, after 37 years of distinguished service with FM Global.
Tadmoury joined FM Global in 1989 as a reinsurance claims analyst and advanced to hold various roles, including manager of assumed reinsurance in Massachusetts. He was also deputy director of FM Global’s construction and international power units, based in London, and operations manager, based in Paris.
In 2012, Tadmoury moved to FM Global’s corporate headquarters in Rhode Island, where he held several senior leadership roles, notably heading client service and sales, compliance and Hobbs Brook Real Estate. He assumed the role of Asia Pacific division manager in 2019 and his most recent role as AFM division manager in 2022.
Tadmoury’s experience outside of FM Global includes roles with Hanover Re’s Med Re Services in Athens, Greece. He holds an MBA from St. Louis University and a bachelor’s degree in quantitative business analysis from Indiana University.
Rosa Promoted to CEO of MAPFRE RE, Pérez de Lema Named CEO of New Insurance Unit
MAPFRE announced a restructuring of its operations and a group of promotions and appointments, which include Miguel Ángel Rosa (the current CEO of Verti Germany) who will take on the role of CEO of MAPFRE RE, and Eduardo Pérez de Lema (the current CEO of MAPFRE RE) who will become CEO of International Insurance, a new business unit that encompasses all MAPFRE insurance operations worldwide, except Iberia and North America.
These appointments take effect on Jan. 1, 2024.
All the geographical areas of LATAM (Brazil, LATAM South-Center and Mexico) together with EMEA, and MAPFRE Global Risks are to be integrated into the new International Insurance unit. In addition to this new unit, Pérez de Lema will also lead MAPFRE Global Risks.
In addition, Elena Sanz (the current group chief people officer) has been appointed CEO of MAPFRE IBERIA (Spain and Portugal), while the current regional CEO of LATAM, Jesús Martínez Castellanos, joins this unit as deputy CEO of Iberia and as new CEO of MAPFRE Vida (Spain).
Mónica García Cristóbal, head of transformation at MAPFRE in Spain, is replacing Rosa as CEO of Verti Germany.
First vice chairman Ignacio Baeza is retiring after 27 years of service. He will be succeeded by José Manuel Inchausti, the current CEO of MAPFRE Iberia and third vice chairman.
In addition to continuing to serve as the group’s CFO and member of the board, Fernando Mata will take on the role of third vice chairman. The current group chief investment officer, José Luis Jiménez, joins the Finance Area as deputy CFO and will also continue as the most senior executive with responsibility for global investment management.
Raúl Costilla, current CEO of MAPFRE Vida, and who has extensive experience in the insurance business both in Spain and overseas, has been appointed group chief business officer, corporate, tasked with directing the group’s sales and technical strategy globally.
The company also announced that it is simplifying its corporate structure by integrating People, Strategy and Sustainability into a single area that will be headed by Alfredo Castelo, current group chief business officer. Juan Carlos Rondeau will continue leading the Corporate People and Organization Area.
José Luis Gurtubay will take over the Corporate Internal Audit Area from March 31, 2024, replacing María Luisa Gordillo, who will retire on that date.
Alberto Berges has been named CEO of MAPFRE Mexico. In Brazil, the structure has been simplified, with Felipe Nascimento remaining in charge. Óscar Celada, who transfers from MAPFRE in Spain, has been appointed deputy CEO of Business at MAPFRE Seguros in Brazil, while Nelson Alves moves from MAPFRE Asistencia (MAWDY) to become deputy CEO of Finance and Business Support at MAPFRE Seguros.
In addition, in the Dominican Republic, a single CEO – Andrés Mejía – has been appointed for the two operations in the country. Eva Tamayo, current regional general manager for the Canary Islands, has been designated CEO of MAPFRE in Chile. In Panama and Central America, Óscar Ortega, who has headed up the business in Chile until now, will be the new CEO.
In total, more than 15 senior MAPFRE executives have been appointed or have changed positions in the group.
All of these appointments will take effect on Jan. 1, 2024, except where otherwise stated.

Topics
Canada
