This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Arch Insurance International and the MGA Carbon Underwriting.
A summary of these new hires follow here.
Arch Insurance International Promotes Valder to Deputy CEO
Arch Insurance International has announced the appointment of Kirsten Valder as deputy CEO, effective immediately.
As deputy CEO, Valder will be responsible for supporting the continued development and evolution of Arch Insurance International’s platforms, which include the London market, UK regional market, Australia, Bermuda and the EU.
Based in London, she will continue to report to Hugh Sturgess, CEO of Arch Insurance International.
Valder has been part of the senior leadership team at Arch Insurance International for 10 years and was chief claims officer until 2021 when she was promoted to chief administrative officer with an expanded remit including claims, legal, human resources and compliance. Prior to joining Arch, Valder was a partner at Kennedys Law LLP.
Carbon Underwriting Taps Everest Re’s Crocker as Active Underwriter
Carbon Underwriting Ltd., the London-based independent managing general underwriter and Lloyd’s syndicate CBN 4747, announced the appointment of Rob Crocker as active underwriter, effective April 2024.
In a career spanning more than 30 years, Crocker was previously active underwriter & head of Professional Lines at Everest Re. He also held senior underwriting roles with XL Catlin and W. R. Berkley Europe among others.
Subject to regulatory approval, Crocker will work closely with Carbon’s existing underwriting management team: Founder and CEO Nick Tye; Carbon Founder and Chief Underwriting Officer Jacqui Ferrier; and Carbon Founder and Chief Technology Officer Ben Laidlaw.
Launched in 2018, Carbon Underwriting Ltd. operates Syndicate CBN 4747 at Lloyd’s.

Topics
Underwriting
