Aston Lark, a Howden company, announced it has acquired Plymouth, UK-based marine insurance broker, Curtis Marine.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
Curtis Marine will become part of Howden’s marine practice, trading under the Haven Knox-Johnston name. The business will join Euromarine, A-Plan Marine and Howden Fastnet to collectively form part of Haven Knox-Johnston, the UK’s leading marine insurance provider.
As a family-run business, Curtis Marine has been providing marine insurance solutions to the South West region for the last 40 years. Organizing cover for a wide variety of vessel types, from dinghies to luxury motorboats, and for marine businesses from sole traders to marinas, the Curtis team prides itself on exceptional customer service, with advice and guidance for clients throughout their insurance journey.
The acquisition develops Haven Knox-Johnston’s national presence, with an established local team based in Plymouth able to provide excellent customer service, alongside an increased product portfolio, Aston Lark said in a statement.
“We’re delighted to welcome Sally, Aidan and the entire Curtis Marine team to the Howden Marine Practice and look forward to working closely together to provide the best marine insurance solutions to the marine industry and boatowners in Plymouth and the local area,” commented Steve Hook, head of Marine Practice, Haven Knox-Johnston, which was acquired by Aston Lark in 2021.
“Our aim is to create the UK’s most client-focused marine insurance proposition and deliver a wide choice of products combined with expert advice and excellent value for money to our clients. Acquisitions like Curtis Marine are key to helping us achieve this objective,” Hook added.
“This is a new and exciting chapter and a great fit for Curtis Marine. Our business success has been made possible due to the hard work of our excellent staff, and support from our loyal customers and insurance partners,” according to Aidan Mepsted, director at Curtis Marine. “We look forward to joining the Howden Marine Practice and developing the business as it continues to expand in the marine insurance sector.”
With 2,300 employees across more than 75 offices in the UK and Ireland, Aston Lark has 220,000 customers and more than £1.3 biillion of GWP. The company said Aston Lark has expertise in all commercial sectors, industry-specific schemes, employee benefits consultancy, and a wide range of private client solutions.
Part of the Aston Lark group, Haven Knox-Johnston specializes in the leisure marine segment and has been a recognized brand since the 1980s.
Source: Aston Lark

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
