This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Willis Towers Watson (WTW) and Hiscox.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
WTW’s Hires EY’s Mayers for Commercial Lines Pricing, Underwriting
WTW announced the appointment of Taffy Jo Mayers to the company’s Insurance Consulting and Technology business. In her new role, Mayers will lead the unit’s commercial lines pricing and underwriting propositions in order to help insurers modernise and thrive in this evolving market.
Mayers most recently served as head of Commercial P&C and Specialty Insurance and Underwriting Transformation for EY North America. In that role she was responsible for identifying and developing strategies and technologies to assist commercial insurance carriers with automation and business modernisation initiatives to scale and future proof their operations. Prior to this, Mayers held several leadership roles at Zurich North America, including head of Middle Markets Underwriting Transformation.
WTW’s Insurance Consulting and Technology business has over 1,200 colleagues operating in 35 markets worldwide. It is a leading provider of advice, solutions and software – primarily to the insurance industry. Its consulting services help clients manage risk and capital, improve business performance, and create competitive advantage – by focusing on financial and regulatory reporting, enterprise risk and capital management, M&A and corporate restructuring, products, pricing, business management and strategy.
Hiscox Names Flaquet to Newly Created Role of Group COO
Specialist global insurer Hiscox has announced the appointment of Stéphane Flaquet as the group’s chief operating officer, effective Sept. 1, 2022 and subject to regulatory consents.
Flaquet has been with Hiscox since 2010 and held a number of senior roles across the group. He initially joined Hiscox as chief operating officer for Hiscox Europe, before moving on to become group IT director in 2012 and then chief executive officer for Hiscox Europe between 2016 and 2021. He is currently group chief transformation officer and interim chief executive officer for Hiscox UK.
In his new role, Flaquet will oversee a number of critical central functions including group claims, group IT, property services, procurement and group marketing to ensure the continued effective and efficient delivery of core services. He will be a member of the group executive committee and report to Hiscox Group CEO, Aki Hussain.
“As Stéphane takes on this new role for the group, we will benefit enormously from his institutional knowledge, having run a number of Hiscox business areas. With a focus on driving process maturity, continued digital transformation and service excellence, Stéphane will play an important part in ensuring we continue to build a better business that delivers for our customers,” commented Hussain.

Topics
Commercial Lines
Business Insurance
Underwriting
Pricing Trends
Willis Towers Watson
