This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Liberty Specialty Markets (LSM), Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI) and Howden CAP.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Liberty Specialty Markets (LSM), part of Liberty Mutual Insurance’s Global Risk Solutions division, announced the promotion of Markus Hefel to the role of general manager, LSM Switzerland, subject to regulatory approval.
Hefel is responsible for leading the Swiss team and LSM’s business in Switzerland to serve the needs of Swiss clients and brokers. Prior to his promotion, he was deputy general manager, and regional manager for Accident & Health (A&H) and underwriting manager, Casualty.
Hefel joined LSM in 2018 from Ironshore where he was country manager for Switzerland. He has over 30 years of experience in insurance and has built robust relationships with brokers and clients. During his career he has underwritten business in international casualty, A&H insurance, as well as financial lines, marine, and construction.
“Switzerland is a critical European market for LSM. Markus has a wealth of experience in the region and is the right person to lead the team to meet our ambitious growth plans here. The Swiss team makes a significant contribution and plays a key role in our strategy to serve the needs of Swiss clients and brokers, we’re grateful for the confidence and trust of our partners,” said Kadidja Sinz, head of Central Region (Europe and MENA) at Liberty Specialty Markets.
BHSI Names Bruce-Kahn as Chief Executive in Singapore
Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI) announced that it has appointed Mary Bruce-Kahn to the role of chief executive, Singapore.
Bruce-Kahn joined BHSI in January as regional head of Operations & IT based in Singapore. She has more than 20 years of experience in operational leadership in the insurance industry and previously held senior local and regional positions in Thailand, Singapore and Australia. She will retain her current position in addition to the new role.
Prior to joining BHSI, she held roles at Liberty Specialty Markets, Willis Towers Watson and AIG – all in Singapore, according to her LinkedIn profile.
“Since we received our license at the end of 2014, the team and the portfolio in Singapore have been growing steadily,” said Marc Breuil, President, BHSI Asia Middle East. “With a firmly anchored local presence both in Singapore and in Asia, BHSI continues to expand its relationship and its product capabilities. As such, we are delighted to see Mary step up to the CE role where she will add to our collective strength and lead our further expansion.”
Bruce-Kahn will continue to be based in Singapore and can be reached at mary.bruce-kahn@bhspecialty.com.
Howden CAP Names Marsh’s van Kuffeler Chief Commercial Officer
Howden, the London-based insurance broker, announced the appointment of Alexander van Kuffeler as chief commercial officer of Howden CAP, a new capital, advisory and placement business for financial institutions and corporates.
Van Kuffeler’s role will be to hone the value proposition for Howden CAP, support its delivery of unique and innovative advice and solutions and forge relationships with key clients and markets.
Van Kuffeler joins Howden CAP from Marsh, where he was a client director in Marsh’s Private Equity and M&A Practice, advising on risk transfer solutions for complex M&A transactions. Prior to this, he worked at Willis Towers Watson for 13 years, where he was executive director in Political Risk and Structured Credit insurance team. Latterly, he was a senior client executive in the Global Solutions Group with a focus on structuring M&A solutions for private capital investments in Infrastructure and Real Assets, as well as managing lenders’ insurance requirements for such transactions.
About Howden CAP
Howden CAP, part of Howden Broking, is a new capital, advisory and placement business for financial institutions and corporates. The division provides a blend of insurance and investment solutions to help manage complex risks and optimise capital for clients in the private equity, banking and asset management sectors.
Howden CAP houses the broker’s Mergers & Acquisitions practice, its Global Credit Solutions and Surety practices, and specialists in regulatory capital, risk weighted assets, private equity, insolvency, tax, credit, and structured finance.

Topics
Auto
Commercial Lines
