This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Sompo International and Inigo Limited.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Sompo Int’l Taps Zurich’s Weiss as Head of Property & Energy, Continental Europe
Sompo International, the Bermuda-based provider of commercial and consumer property and casualty re/insurance, announced the appointment of Angela Weiss as head of Property & Energy Insurance for Continental Europe, effective Sept. 1.
She will be based in Zurich and report to Ralph Brand, president Continental Europe Insurance.
Weiss joins Sompo International from Zurich Insurance where she was head of Underwriting Property, Engineering Lines and Marine for Switzerland and international Austrian business. Her previous experience includes various leadership and underwriting roles in property, energy, engineering lines, marine and risk engineering at Zurich Germany, AXA and FM Insurance. She holds a master’s degree in Civil Engineering.
“We’re continuously investing in our Property and Energy offering for Continental Europe where we see a growing demand for market leading expertise and capacity. Angela’s in-depth industry knowledge and broad experience, combined with her extensive network within the insurance community, make her the ideal person to lead our ambitions in this important field and build a strong team across Continental Europe,” commented Brand.
Inigo Hires Aviation Specialist Harker From Marsh
Inigo Limited announced the appointment of Simon Harker, the former global chairman and CEO of Marsh Aviation. Harker will work alongside Ed Whitworth who assumes responsibility for aviation underwriting.
“We are very proud to have Simon join Inigo. His industry sector credentials and experience with clients and brokers across the globe is hard to rival. The combination of Simon with Ed, who has an exemplary record supporting clients and brokers and expanding our underwriting offering, will be a huge asset to us,” commented Matthew Rolph, head of Distribution at Inigo.
“We currently offer property, casualty, D&O and cyber alongside war insurance to the aviation industry. I look forward to working with Simon in bringing together our client and broker proposition and building out our team further still,” Whitworth said.
Through its Lloyd’s syndicate, Inigo specializes in a select number of high-risk, high-capacity insurance and reinsurance lines – serving some of the world’s largest commercial and industrial enterprises.

Topics
Europe
Aviation
Property
