This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Aon Underwriting Managers and Lloyd’s of London.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Aon Underwriting Managers Appoints LSM’s Clapham as CUO
Aon plc, the global professional services firm, announced that Simon Clapham has joined the firm as chief underwriting officer for Aon Underwriting Managers (AUM). He will report to James de Labillière, managing director of AUM.
Clapham brings considerable experience to the AUM team. He has worked in underwriting and broking companies in the insurance industry in the UK and the US, including 12 years at Liberty Specialty Markets (LSM) as head of underwriting performance management across long-tail, short-tail, and reinsurance classes of business.
Among other roles in his extensive career, he was also the active underwriter for Brit’s Syndicates 800 and 2987, a member of the board at Brit Insurance Holdings plc and the Lloyd’s Market Board.
Lloyd’s Taps Aviva’s Adams as Chief People Officer, Succeeding Gomez
Lloyd’s, the insurance and reinsurance marketplace, has announced the appointment of Nathan Adams as its chief people officer.
Adams will join Lloyd’s early next year, and will become a member of Lloyd’s Executive Committee, reporting to John Neal, Lloyd’s chief executive officer.
Adams has over 20 years of experience as an HR and transformation leader. He joins Lloyd’s from Aviva, where he has held a number of senior roles since joining in 2014, most recently chief people officer at Aviva Investors. Before Aviva, he held senior HR roles at Barclays and Arcadia Group.
Adams will replace Sara Gomez, who will be retiring from Lloyd’s at the end of the year. Gomez joined Lloyd’s in July 2021 and was appointed interim chief HR officer and a member of Lloyd’s Executive Committee on Dec. 1, 2021, before becoming chief people officer in 2022.
“Nathan is a strong leader with outstanding experience driving the people agenda in large organisations. He will be a great addition to the team as we continue to focus on promoting an inclusive, high-performance culture across Lloyd’s,” commented Neal.
Neal thanked Gomez “for her contribution to the Lloyd’s culture and people agenda over the past three and a half years. She has been a valued member of Lloyd’s Executive Committee and I wish her the best as she moves into a new and exciting phase of her life, which she has been planning for some time.”

Topics
Excess Surplus
Underwriting
Lloyd's
Aon
