This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Arch Insurance and Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Arch Insurance (EU) dac Promotes Smith to CEO, Succeeding Scheuer
Arch Insurance (EU) dac (AIEU) announced the promotion of Duncan Smith to chief executive officer.
As CEO, Smith is responsible for leading the executive management team of AIEU and delivering on the company’s growth plans for continental Europe through its expanding network of branch offices.
AIEU provides specialist insurance solutions within the European Union, writing insurance business through its Property & Casualty and Mortgage divisions and providing capacity to managing general agents through its Alwyn Europe division.
Smith joined Arch in 2005 and was most recently deputy CEO of AIEU. Prior to this, he was head of Professional Lines for Arch Insurance International.
“[Smith’s] considerable underwriting expertise and leadership experience will be critical as AIEU continues to elevate its market position and relevance to brokers and customers across Europe,” commented Kirsten Valder, a director of AIEU and deputy CEO of Arch Insurance International,
Smith’s appointment follows the decision by Søren Scheuer to step down as CEO of AIEU, although he will remain on the board of the company as a non-executive director, subject to regulatory approval. Going forward, Scheuer will focus on leading the Accident & Health team at Arch Re Underwriting ApS.
BHSI Taps SCOR’s Le Gall as Head of Casualty in France
Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI) announced it has appointed Bertrand Le Gall as head of Casualty in France.
Le Gall comes to BHSI with more than two decades of insurance industry experience, much of it focused on large corporate casualty risks. He was most recently regional manager, Casualty and Professional Lines, EMEA, at SCOR where he had held various positions over 17 years, according to his LinkedIn profile.
Le Gall is based in Paris and be reached at Bertrand.Legall@bhspecialty.com.
“Bertrand’s deep expertise will fuel the ongoing profitable growth of our casualty portfolio and relationships in France and worldwide,” said Louis du Ché, country manager, France and Belgium, BHSI.
BHSI provides a range of casualty solutions in France, including public and private liability for large corporate risks and multinational programs.

Topics
Europe
Casualty
