This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI), AXA XL, and the MGA Alta Signa Europe.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
BHSI Promotes Browne, Holmes to Global Underwriting Posts
Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI) announced two leadership promotions. Hilary Browne has been promoted to the role of deputy global chief underwriting officer, and Cameron Holmes is now global underwriting officer, Property for Energy and Construction.
Browne, who has nearly 25 years of global insurance industry experience, joined BHSI in 2019 as country manager, Ireland, and head of Casualty for Europe, and most recently served as global chief underwriting officer, Casualty and Healthcare, and deputy head of Europe. As she assumes her new role, her Europe region responsibilities will transition to Alessandro Cerase, newly named head of BHSI Europe Region, while she retains responsibility for global casualty and healthcare underwriting.
Additionally, in her new role Browne will provide executive oversight for BHSI’s global A&H underwriting, multinational underwriting and support, and underwriting affairs. She will continue to be based in Dublin and will report to David Fields, global chief underwriting officer, BHSI.
Holmes has been head of Property Technical Lines at BHSI in Australia since 2018. He joined BHSI in 2015 as property energy and construction manager and has more than 20 years of experience in engineering and technical lines property insurance. As he assumes his new role, he will continue to be based in Sydney and will report to Dean LaPierre, BHSI’s global chief underwriting officer, Property and Marine.
AXA XL Bolsters Energy Team With Hires From WTW, Chubb
AXA XL announced the following hires in its Energy team, further bolstering its offering in the UK & Lloyd’s Business Unit:
Stroud will apply her deep knowledge of the energy market to assist in the development and execution of the portfolio’s underwriting strategy. Most recently, she held the position of executive director – head of Energy Liability at Willis Towers Watson.
Simmons will play a key role in supporting clients through the energy transition, working on both downstream, power and renewables business. She joins from Chubb Global Markets where she was most recently a downstream energy assistant underwriter.
Knott is new to the energy insurance industry and will support the Downstream and Liability teams with the delivery of their ambitions for the business unit.
“Energy remains a strategic part of AXA XL’s portfolio, and as a long-established leader and trusted partner in this market, we’re committed to supporting our clients as they navigate the challenges of the energy transition,” commented Nicola Harris, head of Energy, UK & Lloyd’s.
“Further, I’m delighted to welcome three new women to our team, which echoes our commitment to increasing representation of women across the business. These new hires allow us to continue to offer an exceptional service, coupled with market-leading expertise, as we help our clients to explore solutions for current and future risks.”
MGA Alta Signa Names Marongiu as Technical Head of Cyber U/W
European boutique managing general agent (MGA), Alta Signa Europe B.V. has appointed Mauro Marongiu as technical head of Cyber Underwriting.
Marongiu will be responsible for managing cyber business in Italy, and the wider European large and middle market. His appointment matches Alta Signa’s close-to-source underwriting approach to meet the needs of clients and broker partners across the region. Marongiu brings significant technical expertise, making him an important hire for the further development of Alta Signa’s cyber offering across Europe.
Prior to joining Alta Signa, Marongiu was a cyber security underwriter for Satec, with prior experience coming as an IT security specialist, analyst and consultant at companies such as UniCredit Services, Hewlett Packard Enterprise and Capgemini.
“Cyber is a crucial component for the growth of our Italian operation, and I’m very pleased to have Mauro on board. His impressive experience will bring a valuable perspective and I know that our clients and brokers across Europe as a whole will benefit greatly from his wealth of expertise,” commented Marina Chierici, Alta Signa’s branch manager for Italy.

Topics
Cyber
Liability
Insurance Wholesale
AXA XL
