Specialist Risk Group (SRG), the London-based insurance intermediary, has agreed to acquire UK specialist schemes broker, Strategic Insurance Services Ltd. (SISL), subject to regulatory approval.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
SISL becomes SRG’s first acquisition since it announced new investment partners, Warburg Pincus and Temasek, in May 2024, which is also subject to regulatory approval.
Established in 1997 and based in West Sussex, England, SISL provides a number of deeply specialist schemes with established relationships with insurers, brokers and financial services clients throughout Europe.
SISL is a further demonstration of SRG’s strategic focus to continually expand the range of specialisms it provides across the Group.
“We are excited to welcome SISL to SRG. The SISL team has profound expertise in creating and delivering specialist schemes, which aligns perfectly with our strategic vision. This acquisition not only enables us to support SISL in developing their current proposition but also expand their capability further across international markets,” commented Warren Downey, SRG Group CEO.
“The cultural fit between our two organisations is exceptional, and we see significant opportunities for our people to grow and thrive together,” Downey said.
“We have known Warren and the SRG team for some time and are thrilled to now be joining SRG. Both our firms share the same cultural values, and I look forward to working in an environment where our teams can collaborate and excel,” according to Christian Freer, SISL director.
“This partnership opens up tremendous opportunities for our team, allowing us to leverage SRG’s resources and expertise to drive the growth of our business. Together, we are well-positioned to further support clients across the globe with our specialist insurance products and solutions,” Freer added.
Source: Specialist Risk Group (SRG)

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
