This edition of International People Moves details appointments at AXA XL and Generali Global Corporate & Commercial (GC&C).
A summary of these new hires follows here.
AXA XL Promotes O’Malley as Chief Client & Distribution Officer, Americas
AXA XL has appointed Matthew V. O’Malley to the newly created role of chief client & distribution officer for the Americas, reporting to Lucy Pilko, the region’s chief executive officer, and Manuel Meier, AXA XL’s chief client officer.
In his new role, O’Malley will lead AXA XL’s U.S. zonal teams, Canada and Bermuda country distribution, client engagement, broker engagement, and marketing activities in the Americas. He will work with clients and distribution partners and across AXA XL’s product lines to foster long-term partnerships to help enhance client experience and engagement.
During his 25-year tenure in the insurance industry, O’Malley has held numerous underwriting and management positions. Most recently, he served as AXA XL’s U.S. country manager, assuming broader oversight of AXA XL’s collective business activity in the US Insurance Market. Previously, he led AXA XL’s North America Environmental insurance business for eight years and later also took on the underwriting management responsibility of the company’s E&S Casualty business.
GC&C Taps Puerta From QBE as Head of Mediterranean & Latin America
Generali Global Corporate & Commercial (GC&C) has appointed Patricia Puerta as the new head of GC&C Mediterranean & Latin America, effective May 2, 2024. Puerta is taking over from Carlos Gomez, who has led the region since 2013 and who recently moved into the position of GC&C head of Insurance.
In her new role, Puerta will oversee corporate and commercial operations across the Mediterranean region (excluding Italy and Greece), as well as Latin America. This includes identifying opportunities for business development and operational efficiency enhancements, and further strengthening GC&C’s presence and impact across the region, as well as a focus on driving sustainable growth initiatives.
Puerta has worked in insurance for more than two decades, showcasing her skills across diverse areas including claims, credit control and operations. She has primarily excelled in technical underwriting, particularly in the multinational large risk sector. Prior to her role with GC&C, Puerta served as general manager at QBE Iberia, and was a member of the European Management Committee, spearheading an array of strategic initiatives spanning Europe and beyond.
In addition, she co-championed a collaborative project that bridged teams across various regions including Europe, the UK and Canada. Earlier in her career, Puerta acquired valuable expertise through roles at Catlin and the XL Group. She studied law and holds a master’s degree in Insurance and Risk Management from Universidad Pontificia de Salamanca.

Topics
AXA XL
