Specialist Risk Group (SRG), the London-based specialist insurance intermediary, announced the acquisition of One Claim Ltd.
Based in Essex, England, One Claim provides broker partners and their clients with claims management support from initial notification through to settlement. The One Claim team will now sit within SRG’s MGA pillar MX.
The One Claim team has significant expertise in the motor fleet sector, which will add value to SRG’s existing motor fleet capabilities across underwriting, wholesale and retail broking. This includes a motor fleet offering through MGA Capulus, which SRG acquired in October 2024.
Furthermore, SRG employs a large motor fleet broking team in its UK Wholesale business through Miles Smith and a significant fleet book handled by its retail business, Specialist Risk Insurance Solutions.
“One Claim is a fantastic addition to our growing MGA, MX and this deal is a natural next step following Capulus joining our MX MGA pillar earlier this year. The Capulus and One Claim teams perfectly complement each other and they will continue to work closely together to support their broker partners and their clients,” commented Lee Anderson, group deputy CEO of Specialist Risk Group.
“We are delighted to be joining Specialist Risk Group, and look forward to working alongside our friends at Capulus,” said Kevin Smith, director of One Claim Ltd.
“We are proud of the business that we’ve built and of our team that delivers an outstanding service to our clients. In recent years we have seen a significant reduction in the average cost per claim for our clients, delivered by a team of deeply specialist claims professionals,” Smith added. “We are excited for the future as part of MX and the wider SRG business.”
Source: Specialist Risk Group

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Claims
