SiriusPoint Ltd., the Bermuda-based specialty insurer and reinsurer, announced the appointment of Bronek Masojada as chair of the company’s Board of Directors, effective immediately.
Masojada, who joined the board on May 2 this year, is an insurance market veteran with over 30 years’ leadership experience in the industry. Sharon Ludlow, who joined the board in February 2021, and has been interim chair since May 2022, will continue to serve as a non-executive director. Ludlow also remains chair of SiriusPoint’s Audit Committee.
Masojada, who was at global specialist insurer and reinsurer Hiscox for nearly 30 years, retired as chief executive of Hiscox Ltd in 2021. He joined Hiscox in 1993 as group managing director and was appointed chief executive in 2000. During his time at Hiscox, it grew its revenues from $500 million to almost $5 billion, from a single office in London to 34 across the world and from 200 staff to over 3,000.
Prior to joining Hiscox, Masojada began his career at McKinsey & Co. Currently, he serves as chair of Placing Platform Ltd., the industry utility driving digitization of the London insurance market.
“It is an honor to take on the role of chair at this pivotal stage of SiriusPoint’s development. The company has robust foundations, an established platform, and an experienced executive leadership team focused on driving performance and delivering results,” commented Masojada.
“On behalf of the board and management team I extend the company’s thanks to Sharon Ludlow. As interim chair, Sharon has guided the board through a challenging transitional year, led the appointment of a CEO who specializes in transformation and growth, and positioned SiriusPoint for future success. I look forward to continuing to work with Scott [Egan] and his executive team, and Sharon and our fellow directors, to ensure that performance, stakeholder focus, and value creation remain central to the company.”
SiriusPoint recently reported its Q1 2023 results, recording a 80.5% combined ratio for its core operations, with net income up $358 million, year on year.