This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Liberty Specialty Markets, Canopius Group, and HDI Global SE – UK & Ireland.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Liberty Specialty Markets Taps Zurich’s Dutta for Financial Risk Solutions
Liberty Specialty Markets (LSM), part of Liberty Mutual Insurance Group, announced the appointment of Ankita Dutta to the role of senior underwriter – Financial Risk Solutions (FRS).
Dutta reports to Sam Wilde, head of London Markets – FRS and joins with immediate effect. She is based in London.
Dutta is responsible for underwriting a broad range of complex credit and political risks, strengthening broker relationships, and contributing to the continued growth of the London business. She brings to the team a wealth of experience in credit and political risks and a strong technical background.
Dutta joins from Zurich Insurance, Singapore, where she was lead underwriter, Credit & Political Risk for the Singapore book. She has seven years of experience across multiple roles in the global insurance market.
Canopius Appoints WTW’s Saville as Head of Catastrophe Research
Canopius Group, the London-based specialty re/insurer, announces the appointment of Geoffrey Saville as head of Catastrophe Research, effective Aug. 22, 2022.
Saville will enhance Canopius Group’s science-led understanding and approach to climate related risk. He is based in London and reports to Paul Wilkinson, head of Risk Strategy & Analytics.
With a background in weather forecasting from more than a decade of experience working for the Met Office and Bermuda Weather Service, Saville brings expertise in both meteorology and climate science applications to Canopius.
He joins from WTW, where he held the role of head of Weather and Climate Risks Research, playing a key role in the development of the broker’s global research strategy and risk modelling tools, since joining in 2013. Prior to this, Saville held a number of positions within the Met Office, including specialist forecaster within the Flood Forecasting Centre, and as a business consultant working primarily with the insurance and capital markets sector.
HDI Promotes Lavey to Director of Liability, UK & Ireland
HDI Global SE – UK & Ireland (HDI) announced the appointment of Colin Lavey to the role of director of Liability for its UK and Irish branches.
Lavey joined the HDI business in 2017 as a senior underwriter and takes over the role from Owen Digman, who left the business in July. As director of Liability Underwriting, he is now responsible for the UK and Ireland liability account and will report directly to Stephanie Ogden, Managing Director for the UK & Ireland.
Lavey’s appointment is effective immediately. Further announcements regarding senior appointments in the Liability team will follow in due course.
“I am delighted to appoint Colin into this role. Whilst it gives our Liability team stability, Colin’s leadership will bring a new and fresh perspective. There will be a continued emphasis on profitable growth which is underpinned by an up-to-the-minute data strategy,” commented Ogden.
“I’d also like to take this opportunity to thank Owen Digman for his dedication and hard work in growing our significant and profitable Liability book. I wish him all the best in the future,” she added.

Topics
Excess Surplus
Liability
Willis Towers Watson
