Lemonade, the New York City-based insurtech that is powered by artificial intelligence, has launched in the United Kingdom, following previous international moves in France, Germany, and the Netherlands.
Founded in 2015, Lemonade launched its flagship renters insurance in the U.S. in 2016. Lemonade customers can get a quote, purchase contents insurance, file a claim, and get paid — all within seconds, said the company.
Residents in the UK are now able to protect their belongings with Lemonade, featuring a Defaqto 5 Star Rating, starting at just £4 (US$4.50) a month. Policies can be bought through the Lemonade app or online.
Lemonade’s contents insurance includes worldwide coverage for individual personal items of up to £2,000 (US$2,232) each, total coverage up to £100,000 (US$111,607), and no cancellation fees. Add-on coverage is also available for those who want extra protection for theft and loss-related incidents, accidental damage to mobile devices as well as expert help through legal protection.
“Insurance as we know it hails from the UK, as do I. So both professionally and personally bringing Lemonade to the UK is a homecoming of sorts,” said Daniel Schreiber, Lemonade co-CEO and co-founder. “We believe the millions of local renters will appreciate what Lemonade has to offer. After all, who doesn’t want instant, transparent, personalized, and mission-driven insurance?”
Lemonade is entering the UK market in a long-term, strategic reinsurance partnership with leading UK insurer Aviva.
“We’re excited to be appointed as the long-term partner for Lemonade in the UK. We share a common outlook for how digital, AI and data can transform customer experiences, and the role insurers can play in building stronger communities,” said Adam Winslow, CEO of Aviva UK & Ireland General Insurance.
“By joining forces, we can ensure compelling propositions reach a broader range of customers, including renters, an under-served yet growing segment of the UK insurance market. In our 325-year history we have adapted and thrived in a changing world and our partnership with Lemonade is a marker of our intent to continue just this,” Winslow added.
Lemonade Insurance NV is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and subject to limited regulation by the Prudential Regulatory Authority (PRA) in the UK.
Through its Giveback program, the company donates leftover premiums to non-profit organizations selected by its customers, supporting causes like equality, climate, and poverty.
About Lemonade
Lemonade offers renters, homeowners, and pet health insurance in the United States, contents and liability insurance in Germany and the Netherlands, and renters insurance in France and the UK, through its full-stack insurance carriers. Powered by artificial intelligence and behavioral economics, Lemonade set out to replace brokers and bureaucracy with bots and machine learning, aiming for zero paperwork and instant quotes and claims.
Source: Lemonade
Related:

Topics
InsurTech
Tech
