Steve White, the longest-serving chief executive officer in the 47-year history of the British Insurance Brokers’ Association (BIBA), has announced he is stepping down in the fall.
White on May 10 told the audience at the annual BIBA Conference that he informed the board he is retiring after over 19 years at the association – 10 years as its CEO.
“I will do so with a heavy heart,” he said. “But also, huge pride at what we have built at BIBA. And huge excitement and confidence for its future.”
On his LinkedIn profile page, White posted an excerpt of his speech: “At the BIBA Conference in Manchester this morning, I told the audience in my address that I read with interest something the U.S. writer Toni Morrison said…. She wrote that “all art is knowing when to stop”. Well, I like to think of BIBA as our collective work of art. And, ladies and gentlemen, the time has come for me to stop.”
In a statement, BIBA said White has “strengthened the association both in terms of financial position, governance structure and making BIBA the ‘go to’ place for brokers, politicians, media and the regulator on insurance broker issues.”
“The BIBA board and its members are very grateful to Steve for steering the business steadily and successfully through what has latterly been choppy waters,” said Jonathan Evans, BIB chair. “The board thanks him for the sterling job he has undertaken so enthusiastically over the last 10 years. He will leave the business in rude health later this year. In the meantime the board has formed a sub-committee to determine the process in selecting our new chief executive.”