Global non-life premiums are expected to hit a decade-high growth level of 4.3% in 2024, following the repricing of risk over the past several years in response to elevated claims, according to Swiss Re’s sigma.
“Premium rates are now moderating, and we forecast softer global premium growth of 2.3% annually in real terms over 2025-26, below the 3.1% average of the last five years,” said the research report titled “Growth in the shadow of (geo-)politics,” which provides a global economic and insurance market outlook for 2025-2026.
Jérôme Jean Haegeli, Swiss Re’s group chief economist, said rates on the property/casualty side of the industry “are plateauing if you look at market indicators.”
But he indicated that inflation and inflation risk as well as the industry’s expected growth upside that still exists “probably is going to extend the rate cycle on the P&C side.”
Haegeli and Paul Murray, Swiss Re’s CEO Life & Health Reinsurance, spoke during a press briefing this week to discuss the report.
Another trend that could put downward pressure on rates is the fact that P&C business profitability is expected to improve significantly in 2024, primarily due to strong underwriting results and significant rate increases in personal lines insurance.
“We expect these trends to increase industry return on equity (ROE) for our sample of global markets to 9%, from 5% in 2023. For 2025 and 2026, we expect 10% ROE, meeting and exceeding the cost of capital,” the report said.
The Swiss Re report acknowledged that the rate hardening forces that followed the inflation surge in 2021 and 2022 are fading and the outlook for pricing is now more moderate, but trends such as social inflation and rising natural catastrophe losses “have the potential to counteract market softening in related portfolios. Geopolitical events also risk an inflation shock that could prolong the cycle transition.”
Indeed, US hurricane losses in 2024 will likely push global natural catastrophe insured losses to well over US$100 billion, for the fifth consecutive year, “and may delay the onset of softer property insurance pricing.”
Swiss Re said that commercial lines rates moderated during the third quarter – a trend (led by property rates) that is expected to continue.
“After 27 consecutive quarters of increases, the Marsh global commercial insurance rate index declined slightly (‒1%) in the third quarter of 2024 from flat in the prior quarter,” said Swiss Re, quoting Marsh’s Global Insurance Market Index, which was published in October.
“Property rates, which have driven the hardening cycle to date, saw a small decline. US property rates declined by 1% in the third quarter, down from +2% in the second quarter of 2024, +8% growth in 1Q24 and a 11‒17% gain in 2023,” the report said, noting that Hurricanes Helene and Milton are unlikely to drive prices higher but may prevent rates from further declining in the US and other affected regions.
In continental Europe, Q3 2024 property rates rose by 1% (after +7% in 2023), but in the UK and Asia Pacific, rates fell.
Other key points highlighted by the Swiss Re report include:

Topics
Profit Loss
Pricing Trends
