This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Aspen UK and Howden Tiger.
A summary of these new hires follow here.
Stanford Named CEO of Aspen UK, Osman Become Active U/W, Lloyd’s Syndicate 4711
Aspen Insurance Holdings Ltd. announced the confirmation of Sarah Stanford as CEO, Aspen UK, following approval by the Aspen UK Boards. Stanford had been appointed as Interim CEO, Aspen UK on Jan. 17, 2024.
Dan Osman will take over Sarah’s previous role as active underwriter, Lloyd’s Syndicate 4711, in addition to his current responsibility as CUO, Aspen Insurance UK (AIUK).
Osman joined Aspen in January 2018 as senior underwriter, and was promoted to head of Credit and Political Risk in 2021. In 2022, he was also appointed CUO, AIUK. Prior to Aspen, Osman spent 17 years in the banking industry, holding various roles in credit including credit research, correlation trading, bond and credit default swap trading, loan and portfolio management.
Sarah’s and Dan’s appointments are subject to regulatory approval.
Howden Tiger Promotes Chattaraj as Chief Science Officer
Howden Tiger, the reinsurance and capital advisory arm of Howden Group, announced the promotion of Bhaskar Chattaraj to the newly created position of chief science officer (CSO). He will lead the business’s research and development of state-of-the-art risk management frameworks and catastrophe modeling solutions.
Chattaraj is a highly experienced researcher in the field. He joined the business in 2009 and latterly served as head of Cat Modeling and Research & Development (R&D) before starting his new role at the beginning of 2024. He brings to the position over 25 years’ experience in building and implementing cutting-edge risk management solutions.
Based in Minneapolis, Chattaraj reports to Nathan Schwartz, head of Global Analytics, Howden Tiger. He oversees the development of a dedicated R&D team, whose insights and innovations help re/insurance clients globally to build and manage more profitable portfolios. As CSO, Chattaraj is responsible for delivering the business’s next generation of catastrophe risk management models and frameworks, with a particular emphasis on machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI).
“With an incredible wealth of data at our disposal, the latest developments in AI and machine learning are rapidly redefining how the re/insurance industry can model, monitor, and manage risk,” commented Schwartz.
“Having access to the latest and most sophisticated scientific insights will truly differentiate the leaders in this market, and I’m delighted to have Bhaskar at the forefront of our innovations. His extensive industry experience and deep subject-matter expertise will ensure that we continue to empower our clients with cutting-edge, data-led solutions, better enabling re/insurers to adapt to a complex and evolving risk landscape.”

Topics
Excess Surplus
Lloyd's
