Qorus and Accenture have launched the eighth Innovation in Insurance Awards, inviting insurers and insurtechs to submit their entries in a global competition that celebrates innovation that is transforming the industry.
The awards program was launched in 2016 by Efma (the Qorus predecessor) and Accenture. Last year, the awards attracted 398 submissions from 251 institutions in 44 countries.
Companies can submit their entries online until April 6, 2023 within the following seven categories:
Each entry will be assessed using three criteria: originality; long-term strategic impact and return on investment; as well as its ability to be applied on a broader scale in other markets and countries.
Efma-Accenture Innovation Awards Offer View of Insurance Industry’s Transformation
“Since the awards’ inception, we’ve highlighted the cutting-edge insurers and innovations that have set inspiring performance levels for others in the field,” said John Berry, CEO of Paris-based Qorus. “As demonstrated through last year’s program, the industry is continuously shifting to a consumer-centric model. We’re confident that this year’s awards will again showcase the exceptional solutions that insurers are implementing, as they adapt to new lifestyles, reimagine their role, and drive industry reinvention.”
Silvia Milian, a managing director in Accenture’s Insurance industry group, commented, “Over the past few years, we’ve seen a rise in entries focused on sustainability, connected ecosystems and the convergence of health and well-being, indicative of broader industry trends. Driving new innovations in products, distribution and process are critical for responding to rapid market shifts, as well as for building a sustainable and responsible insurance industry.”
Winners will be selected by a panel of judges comprising senior insurance executives from around the world, and an online vote by Qorus members and non-members from insurance institutions. The winners will be announced at an awards ceremony on June 14, 2023.
To find out more about the awards and how to submit an entry, visit innovationininsurance.qorusglobal.com
About Qorus
A global non-profit association established in 1971 by banks and insurance companies, Qorus (formerly known as Efma) provides members with a space for best-practice sharing and collaboration. Headquartered in Paris, with offices in Andorra, Bangkok, Bratislava, Brussels, Dubai, Istanbul, Kuala Lumpur, London, Milan, Seoul, and Tokyo, Qorus serves 1,200 financial groups in 120-plus countries.
About Accenture
Accenture is a global professional services company that helps the world’s leading businesses, governments and other organizations build their digital core, optimize operations, accelerate revenue growth and enhance citizen services. It employs 738,000 people who support clients in more than 120 countries.
Related:

Topics
InsurTech
