Specialist Risk Group (SRG),  the London-based insurance intermediary, announced the acquisition of Stonehatch, a leading specialist bloodstock and livestock insurance broker.
Financial details of the transaction were not disclosed.
Founded in 2014 by Chris Williamson, London-headquartered Stonehatch has built a strong reputation in the bloodstock and livestock sectors, providing insurance solutions to clients and broker partners across the globe. Williamson and his senior team will continue to lead Stonehatch and bring their expertise and knowledge to SRG’s growing equine specialism.
This latest acquisition further strengthens SRG’s commitment to expanding and investing in its specialist capabilities and reinforces its position as a leader in niche insurance markets. Stonehatch’s expertise in bloodstock and livestock insurance will complement SRG’s existing equestrian portfolio, providing clients and broker partners with enhanced, tailored solutions across both national and international markets.
“We are delighted to welcome Chris and the Stonehatch team to SRG. Stonehatch is a perfect fit for us—not only in terms of its market-leading expertise in bloodstock and livestock insurance but also in terms of its culture,” commented Lee Anderson, group deputy CEO of Specialist Risk Group.
“Chris and his team share our commitment to delivering specialist, client-focussed solutions, and we look forward to working together to develop our equine and livestock specialism further. Our goal is to continue to build a business that is as renowned for its deep knowledge and expertise as it is for its people and culture-focused approach,” Anderson added.
“This is an exciting new chapter for the whole Stonehatch team. Joining SRG enables us to continue our journey with a partner that shares our client-centric values and vision. By combining our specialist knowledge in bloodstock and livestock insurance with SRG’s resources and expertise, we are well-positioned to expand our services and deliver more value to our clients,” according to Stonehatch’s Managing Director Chris Williamson.
Source: Specialist Risk Group

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
Agribusiness
