Oneglobal Appoints IRB’s Oka as CEO Reinsurance Brazil
Oneglobal Broking announced the appointment of Adriano Oka as CEO Reinsurance Brazil. Oka will report to Nery Silva, CEO Mercosul, Oneglobal Brazil.
The appointment is effective immediately.
Oka will have responsibility for all reinsurance operations within Brazil and will be looking to build out the team.
Oka is a highly experienced insurance and reinsurance professional with more than 20 years’ experience in the market. Prior to joining Oneglobal, he worked as underwriting director P&C International and Oil & Gas for IRB Brazil Re.
Prior to this he was CEO of Carpenter Marsh Brazil following the integration of MMC Group with JLT Group. During his time at JLT Re, Oka held several leadership roles including leading the Energy division of JLT Re Brazil and was latterly promoted to chief strategy officer (CSO) of JLT Brazil Holdings.
Chubb Names 3 Senior Leaders for Financial Lines in UK, Ireland, S. Africa, Global Markets
Chubb has announced three senior appointments to its Financial Lines teams in the United Kingdom, Ireland and South Africa (UKISA) and Chubb Global Markets (CGM), the company’s London Market wholesale and specialty business that includes its Lloyd’s platform.
Nadia Bagijn has been appointed Financial Institutions manager UKISA and CGM, Leon Adeyemi becomes cyber manager for UKISA and CGM, and Mary McGovern has been promoted to Management Liability Manager for UKISA.
In her new role, Bagijn will be responsible for the leadership of the Financial Institutions business within UKISA and CGM, including setting and driving the growth strategy for both. Bagijn has worked in the insurance industry for 19 years. Prior to joining Chubb, she held financial institutions underwriting leadership roles at several major carriers in the UK, U.S. and Australia.
Adeyemi, who was previously cyber senior underwriter CGM, will now be responsible for the leadership of the cyber team within UKISA and CGM. His role will include implementing cyber strategy for Chubb’s major accounts and mid-market clients in UKISA and CGM.
McGovern joined Chubb in 2008 and most recently led its London Management Liability business. In her new role, she will be responsible for leading and growing Chubb’s management liability portfolio across UKISA.
All three will be based in London and will report to Janet Edey, financial lines manager UKISA. Bagijn and Adeyemi will also report to Robert Wilson, chief underwriting officer for CGM. The appointments are effective immediately.

Topics
Liability
Reinsurance
Leadership
Chubb
