Ryan Specialty announced it has opened an office in Madrid as a next step in the evolution of the firm’s transactional risk managing general underwriter, Ryan Specialty Transactional Risks International.
Madrid is the firm’s third European/UK office, the second in Spain, and is led by Marta Batalla, director of the Spanish Branch, Ryan Specialty Transactional Risks International. The office in Madrid focuses on the core transactional risk products of warranty and indemnity insurance and commercial tax liability insurance, servicing brokers across continental Europe.
Ryan Specialty Transactional Risks International also announced the continued expansion of its European team with the hiring of Rafael Giménez-Reyna in Madrid. Giménez-Reyna joins the international tax team from private practice in which he has spent over 10 years advising clients on Spanish and international tax matters.
“The tax insurance product continues to evolve at a rapid rate, and it is great to be able to add someone of Rafa’s experience to the team. Rafa will be working on international tax risks, but as Spain is currently a busy jurisdiction for tax insurance, it will be extremely beneficial having someone on the ground in Madrid,” commented Kerry Westwell, head of Tax, Ryan Specialty Transactional Risks Europe.
“The transactional risk practice has continued to experience significant growth in the last few years. We now have a team of 30 professionals, including 18 lawyers speaking nine languages, all backed by the strength of Ryan Specialty,” said Batalla.
For additional information on the Madrid office or tax team expansion, please contact:
Source: Ryan Specialty
Photograph: Aerial view of Gran Via, the main shopping street in Madrid, Spain.

Topics
Excess Surplus
Europe
New Markets
