This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Dale Underwriting Partners, Chubb and Argenta.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Dale Underwriting Offers Marine Reinsurance With 2 Hires From MS Amlin
Dale Underwriting Partners (DUP), the trading name for Dale Managing Agency Ltd.’s Lloyd’s Syndicate 1729, has appointed Matthew Sims and William Taylor to underwrite a new marine reinsurance line of business for its Syndicate 1729 at Lloyd’s.
Based in London, Sims will take on the role of head of Marine and Energy Reinsurance, and will be responsible for driving the development of Dale’s marine reinsurance business. He will report to Dominic Peters, active underwriter at DUP’s Syndicate 1729.
Sims brings with him well-rounded experience in leading and underwriting marine and energy reinsurance portfolios. Before joining DUP, he worked at MS Amlin for 24 years, most recently as head of Marine & Energy Reinsurance.
Taylor also joins from MS Amlin. He previously spent more than ten years at Gen Re as senior underwriting specialist for marine facultative and treaty reinsurance. He started his reinsurance career in 1995 at EE Patrick Syndicate 566 (now part of QBE), before holding reinsurance underwriting roles at both Munich Re Syndicate 457 and TransRe.
Taylor has been appointed class underwriter and is tasked with writing innovative placements and supporting Dale’s drive into this speciality line of business.
“I am thrilled to have Matthew and William join us and lead the further expansion of our reinsurance portfolio at a time of great opportunity,” said Chief Executive Duncan Dale. “Both are fantastic additions to our accomplished underwriting team and bring a wealth of marine reinsurance experience and sound technical expertise to our offering. We very much look forward to working with them to build on the independent platform provided by the recent approval of our Lloyd’s Managing Agency.”
Dale Underwriting Partners is an independent, owner-managed underwriting business which began trading with effect from Jan. 1, 2014 with the formation of Lloyd’s Syndicate 1729. Since then, the business has grown and in 2021 it announced a new joint venture, Dale DUAL MGU Ltd.
Chubb Names Allianz’ Turberville as Head of Hull for Global Mkts.
Chubb announced the appointment of Chris Turberville as head of Hull for Chubb Global Markets (CGM), the company’s London Market wholesale and specialty business including its Lloyd’s platform.
In this role, Turberville will be responsible for the management, oversight and development of all CGM’s commercial hull business and its yacht portfolio. He will be based in London and report to David Kirk, head of Marine for CGM. The appointment is effective in the first quarter of 2023.
Turberville joins Chubb from Allianz Global Corporate and Speciality where he was head of Hull and Liability Insurance (UK) since 2012. He is a member of the Chartered Insurance Institute and also the Lloyd’s Market Association’s Joint Hull Committee.
Turberville succeeds Mark Edmondson, who is acting product head for CGM’s Hull and Yacht portfolio. Once Turberville is in post Edmondson will assume the role of consultant marine underwriter for Chubb Overseas General, reporting to Andrew Williamson, executive vice president Marine, Overseas General Insurance.
Argenta Appoints Blackwell as Head of Property
Argenta Syndicate Management Ltd. (ASML), a subsidiary of Argenta Holdings Ltd., announces the appointment of James Blackwell as head of property, with immediate effect.
Based in London, Blackwell will report to Ian Burford, active underwriter and director of underwriting of ASML’s Syndicate 2121 and SPA 6134. In his new role, Blackwell will be responsible for growing Argenta’s global property business.
Blackwell brings more than 20 years’ experience in the insurance industry in both the Lloyd’s and company markets. Throughout his career, Blackwell has played an instrumental part in building two syndicates from the ground up, with cross-class underwriting experience with a core focus on property in both the US and international markets.
Blackwell joins ASML from Agora Syndicate 3268, where since 2016 he held the roles of head of treaty, deputy active underwriter and director of underwriting. In those roles he had responsibility across all underwriting operations, including exposure management, capital, risk and underwriting framework, reserving, performance analytics and outwards reinsurance. Prior to Agora, Blackwell was the head of specialty and property treaty at Endurance Syndicate 5151, formerly Montpelier and previously held a variety of roles at QBE.
Argenta Holdings Ltd., a subsidiary of Hannover Re, is the parent company of ASML and of Argenta Private Capital Ltd., which provides investor capacity to the Lloyd’s market of almost £3.3 billion for 2022. ASML is a Lloyd’s authorized managing agency, housing the Argenta Group’s underwriting operations, Argenta Syndicate 2121 and SPA 6134. Syndicate 2121 has a total underwriting capacity for 2022 of £660 million split between: property both direct (including power/utilities and UK commercial combined) and treaty; marine; terrorism; casualty (including financial lines) and political risks. Hannover Re supports 100% of the £97 million underwriting capacity of SPA 6134 which provides quota share reinsurance to Syndicate 2121.

Topics
New Markets
Property
Mississippi
Chubb
