MDS Brazil, a subsidiary of Ardonagh-owned MDS Group and one of the country’s major brokers, announced it intends to acquire D’Or Consultoria, a health, dental, life insurance and pensions broker from Rede D’Or Sao Luiz. S.A.
The transaction, which has a consideration of R$800 million (US$155.8 million), is subject to regulatory approval and approval from the country’s competition authority, the Administrative Council for Economic Defense (CADE).
Ardonagh said it will fund the acquisition via the group’s available liquidity.
Upon completion of the acquisition, Ariel Couto, CEO of MDS Brazil, will lead the joint operation. The D’Or Consultoria executive team, led by CEO Bruno Iannuzzi, will remain with the company, ensuring continuity of service to current customers and the continued growth of the business.
MDS Brazil, which specializes in insurance, reinsurance, benefits management and risk consulting, currently manages around R$4 billion ($780 million) in premium. With the future incorporation of D’Or Consultoria, it will be one of the major players in the corporate benefits segment.
D’Or Consultoria has a portfolio of primarily health plans, serving approximately 2.5 million users. The combined operation will manage more than R$8 billion (£1.3 billion) in gross written premiums, creating one of the largest brokers in Brazil, at the forefront of risk management and consultancy for the local market. Until regulatory approval is obtained, the companies continue to operate independently.
The acquisition is part of MDS’ expansion plan in Brazil and Latin America, adding to 12 acquisitions carried out in the country and one in Chile in the last five years.
“I am thrilled to welcome this exceptional team of benefits experts into MDS. Their deep industry knowledge and commitment to service excellence combined with the scale of MDS globally will unlock many new opportunities to deliver value to our customers in Brazil,” commented Jose Manuel Fonseca, CEO of MDS Group, in a statement.
“This transaction marks an exciting evolution of our regional strategy fortifying our footprint, in the Latin American market, with cutting-edge solutions tailored to our clients’ needs,” according to Ariel Couto, CEO of MDS Brazil.
“The arrival of D’Or’s experienced leadership team and proprietary technology will significantly elevate our benefits and health proposition. Drawing on their legacy in the market and combining it with our own, MDS is poised to solidify our position as one of the leading brokers in Brazil and Latam,” Couto added.
“We are excited to be announcing the next chapter for D’Or today, one which we believe will deliver long term value for our people, customers and partners,” said Bruno Iannuzzi, CEO of D’Or Consultoria. “The transaction will allow for a differentiated and more complete offering to our clients and market in general, while contributing for the development of the economy and the society of one the biggest economies and insurance markets in the world.”
MDS is a multinational insurance and reinsurance brokerage, risk consultancy and benefits management group, which is part of The Ardonagh Group, the UK-based independent insurance distribution platform and a top 20 broker globally. MDS is a market leader in Portugal, among the largest in Brazil and also operates in Angola, Mozambique, Spain, Chile and Cyprus.
Source: Ardonagh Group

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
