Acrisure, the Grand Rapids, Michigan-based insurance broker and fintech specialist, has launched an office in Bermuda to focus on wholesale insurance broking for its global clients.
Trading as Acrisure Bermuda Ltd., the new business unit aims to complement current reinsurance and specialist MGA facilities, said Acrisure.
Industry veteran Paul Scope has joined the company to serve as CEO of this entity, reporting to Jason Howard, president of Acrisure International and chairman of Acrisure Re.
The new wholesale broking team will begin with professional liability, including directors and officers, errors & omissions, employment practices liability, cyber, and wage and hour, followed by property and casualty.
An established leader in the Bermuda market, Scope brings more than 40 years of experience to Acrisure, joining from Ardonagh Specialty (Bermuda) Ltd., where he had been chairman since 2021. Prior to this, Scope spent six years as chairman of Willis Towers Watson Bermuda. In 1989, he founded Park International, which was acquired by JLT in 2007, becoming JLTPark. He served as chairman and CEO of this business until 2014.
“There has been a growing US and international appetite to access Bermuda’s wholesale market and, as a result, we are pleased to be opening this office,” Howard commented. “We are fortunate to have a leader of Paul’s expertise, experience and industry connections. I look forward to working with him to further establish and expand our position on the island and in the wider wholesale market.”
“Acrisure places $4 billion of premium into the wholesale market annually, and I am pleased to be a part of this rapidly growing business,” according to Scope.
“There are a multitude of wholesale opportunities on the island which Acrisure is well positioned to access,” he added.
“I look forward to working with Jason to build out our Bermuda team and proposition, continuing to partner with retail brokers and deliver tailored insurance solutions to our global client base. Additionally, I am delighted to welcome experienced Bermuda brokers, Alexandra Hayne and Trevor Ferguson to the team,” Scope said.
Source: Acrisure

Topics
New Markets
