Howden, the London-based insurance intermediary group, announced it has agreed to acquire ARM Group Holdings Ltd., the parent of Alternative Risk Management, one of the largest independent insurance managers in Europe and a specialist in the formation and management of insurance captives.
Financial details of the deal, which is subject to regulatory approvals, were not disclosed.
Based in Guernsey with a management license in Bermuda, ARM is a group of companies that provide insurance management services to clients worldwide. ARM offers a comprehensive and diverse range of services, managing over 80 captive structures.
Howden said the acquisition represents a significant step in its strategy to accelerate the growth of its Multinational Clients Practice.
“In-house captive capabilities are an essential piece of the puzzle in order for us to provide unparalleled solutions for our large and multinational clients,” commented Morwenna Howell, managing director and global practice leader, Howden Multinational Clients Practice.
“This is a growing market with strong demand for new entrants, and by harnessing the power of our global network, our market-leading specialty, reinsurance and analytics capabilities, and now, our enhanced captive capabilities, we look forward to continuing our growth,” Howell added.
“We have built a robust, successful business in the last 20 years, and joining with Howden represents the logical next step in our journey. It has been an easy decision to make as we already manage a number of Howden clients, allowing us to get to know them and vice-versa,” said Charles Scott, managing director, ARM.
Founded in 1994, Howden operates in 50 countries across Europe, Africa, Asia, the Middle East, Latin America, the US, Australia and New Zealand, employing 16,000 people and handling $38 billion of premium on behalf of clients.
Source: Howden

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
