HDI Global SE has received regulatory approval to open a branch in Lisbon, Portugal.
HDI Global has been operating in the Portuguese market for more than two decades under the European Union’s freedom of services. The new branch office in the capital comes as a natural evolution of that business and will complement the existing customer and broker platform in the Iberian (Spain and Portugal) peninsula, allowing HDI Global to move closer to its Portuguese customers, the company said.
HDI Global plans to start its activity locally at the beginning of 2024 and is currently assembling its local team that will focus on providing tailored innovative insurance products and services to the local market. The search for new staff with extensive market expertise is underway.
HDI Global’s portfolio of solutions will be replicated in Portugal and will include insurance for property damage and business interruption, casualty, energy and construction, marine, cyber, and specialty lines. It will also bring access to HDI Global´s International Programme network and its Captive Fronting and Alternative Risk Transfer capabilities.
Nuno Antunes, current Iberia head of Client Strategy and Portugal country manager, will lead the new branch as managing director. Antunes is a well-respected insurance senior executive with a career spanning more than two decades in the UK, France, Spain, and Portugal.
“Our focus will be on offering our clients and business partners innovative solutions, capital strength, stability, technical expertise, and reliable service – regardless of whether they operate internationally or solely in Portugal,” commented Antunes.
“Thanks to our global network, we enable Portuguese clients and brokers to operate worldwide in a compliant manner. We can closely support them as a reliable partner wherever they do business. Exciting times are ahead for HDI Global. Insurance specialists interested in working in a fun and dynamic team should get in touch,” he added.
Source: HDI Global