This edition of International People Moves details appointments at AIG Asia Pacific and Gallagher Re.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
AIG Appoints BHSI’s Colahan as Regional President, AIG Asia Pacific
American International Group Inc. announced that Chris Colahan has been appointed regional president, AIG Asia Pacific, and will join the company in the second quarter of 2023. Colahan will report to Jon Hancock, chief executive officer of AIG’s International General Insurance business.
Colahan has more than 20 years of insurance industry experience and most recently served as president of UK & Europe for Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI). Prior to that, he was president of BHSI Australasia. Previously, he served as regional CEO for RSA Asia and CEO of RSA Asia’s Hong Kong and Singapore operations. Colahan holds a degree in Law and Commerce from Bond University, Australia.
Colahan replaces current Regional President Steven Barnett, who is leaving to pursue opportunities outside the company.
“We are fortunate to have someone with Chris’ industry experience and vast knowledge of the Asia Pacific marketplace join AIG,” said Hancock, “Asia Pacific is an important market for our General Insurance business, and with Chris’ leadership, we expect to expand our business and capabilities, deepen relationships with distribution partners and clients, and continue to demonstrate our risk management expertise.”
Gallagher Re Hires McMillan as Renewable Energy Practice Leader
Gallagher Re, the global reinsurance broker, has appointed Robert McMillan as Renewable Energy Practice leader within its global marine & energy team, with immediate effect.
McMillan’s extensive knowledge and experience in the renewable energy sector, in particular onshore and offshore wind, will enable Gallagher Re to build out its client proposition, develop a proprietary view of risk, and best support its insurer and MGA clients’ increasing investment and involvement in renewables. His skillset will complement Gallagher Re’s existing transactional expertise, where it already has significant experience in placing treaty business for renewables, whether mixed portfolios or standalone programs.
McMillan brings more than 30 years’ industry experience and joins from Siemens where he spent 16 years – the last 10 specializing in the onshore and offshore wind industry, holding a variety of senior management roles. A chartered engineer by profession, with additional project management qualifications and skills in leading multi-disciplinary teams, McMillan most recently served as global head of Product Safety and Risk at Siemens, having been head of Engineering for Wind Power UK and Offshore Product Safety officer prior to that.
“As our clients’ energy portfolios and exposures change, our investment is focused on providing the right mix of industry insight, data and analytics, tailored advice and optimised reinsurance solutions to best support those transitions. Developing a dedicated renewable energy specialism using Robert’s expertise and experience is a natural enhancement to our multi-disciplinary marine & energy practice and we are delighted to welcome him to the team,” commented Nick Croxford, global head of Marine & Energy at Gallagher Re.
“Renewable energy has an essential role to play in delivering on decarbonisation targets, improving energy security and reducing emissions overall, and I’m excited to apply my decades of experience and knowledge in a new way that furthers its development,” McMillan said.
“Without the transfer of risk made possible by insurance and reinsurance, ground-breaking renewables projects and technological advances simply wouldn’t happen. So I’m looking forward to working with my broking colleagues to deliver the support and solutions our insurer clients need in this fast-evolving industry,” McMillan added.

Topics
Energy
Leadership
A.J. Gallagher
AIG
