Howden Scotland, formerly known as Bruce Stevenson, announced the acquisition of Neilson Laurence & Neil, the Glasgow-based UK specialist commercial insurance broker.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
Through the acquisition, Neilson Laurence & Neil will fully integrate into the Howden Glasgow team, broaden its portfolio of insurance and risk management solutions available to clients while increasing the scope of services offered, including D&O, professional indemnity (PI) and motor.
This transaction demonstrates Howden UK&I’s wider growth strategy to reinforce its widest geographical reach and deepest product line expertise across the UK market.
“This decision marks the culmination of careful consideration, and it’s clear that the timing is perfect. Joining forces with Howden Scotland, with their unwavering commitment to client satisfaction and deep industry expertise, will only serve to enhance our capabilities and reach,” commented Douglas Linn, senior partner, Neilson Laurence & Neil.
“As Howden Scotland expands, it is essential that we continue to build on market expertise, and Neilson Laurence & Neil is therefore an ideal partner for us in this regard,” said Kenny Hogg, CEO, Howden Scotland. “I look forward to welcoming Douglas and his team to our Glasgow office, and collectively delivering the best possible solutions to our clients.”
The acquisition represents first major transaction for Howden Scotland since it adopted the Howden brand.
Founded in 1994, Howden operates in 50 countries across Europe, Africa, Asia, the Middle East, Latin America, the U.S., Australia and New Zealand, employing 15,000 people and handling $35 billion of premium on behalf of clients.
Source: Howden

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
Commercial Lines
Business Insurance
