This edition of International People Moves details appointments at broker TigerRisk Partners, Mosaic Insurance and MGU Carbon Underwriting.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
TigerRisk Partners LLC, a leading risk, capital and strategic advisor to the global insurance and reinsurance industries, has boosted its delegated authority offering with two key hires in Australia and London.
TigerRisk enters the Australian Reinsurance and Programme Market with the appointment of Simon Chandler as head of Reinsurance Broking, Programmes and Binders. Based in Sydney, Australia, he will be responsible for driving the development of TigerRisk’s delegated business in the Australia, New Zealand, and Pacific Islands region.
Chandler brings 40 years’ experience in the reinsurance industry, with 10 years in London and 30 years in Australia. He joins from Brokers Online Re, where he was Reinsurance Broking Manager. Prior to this, he was the senior manager for Sompo Japan Australia for five years. He previously worked at Aon Re, Breeze Re, Heath Re, REcentis, Sedgwick Re, and Willis Re.
Richard Laird has been appointed partner and will be responsible for finding solutions for innovative placements and structures in the U.S., Canada, the UK and Europe. He will be based in London.
Laird joins from Ed Broking, where he was divisional director, Alternative Risk. Previously, Laird worked at Price Forbes Risk Solutions as director, Specialty Division, and then executive director. Before that, he was director, Specialty Division at Patriarch Risk Ltd., and managing director at Evolve Brokers Limited.
Chandler and Laird will report to Neill Cotton, partner at TigerRisk Partners UK.
“Simon is recognised for the production and broking of strategic and hard-to-place placements. He specialises in treaty and facultative reinsurances and sourcing paper for MGAs, as well as other insurance and reinsurance-backed financial instruments,” said Cotton.
“Richard’s skills lie in placing innovative specialty insurance binders, as well as being a strong advocate of utilising analytics and technology in his broking. Being innovative and advanced in technology is part of Tiger’s culture,” he added.
“TigerRisk entered the delegated authority business market in 2019 and has been focused on creating niche portfolios and working with high-value-add MGAs,” said James Few, chief executive officer of TigerRisk International.
Mosaic Expands M&A Liability Team With 4 New Hires
Mosaic Insurance has expanded its international transactional liability team in the United Kingdom, offering certainty amid an increasingly volatile cross-border deal environment.
The company has added four more employees to its London-based unit in recent months, with underwriters and analysts focused on M&A activity in Britain, Europe, the Middle East, and Africa.
Recent additions to Mosaic’s transactional liability team in London include:
Mosaic’s UK buildout follows a parallel expansion of its North American transactional liability division since hiring Monat last April. The New York-based unit began underwriting M&A coverage in July, including representations and warranties insurance (RWI) and other transactional risk products. Since then, its US-based team has grown to include a total of 17 specialists.
Transactional liability is among Mosaic’s suite of six product lines, each selected for relevance to current and projected global market conditions. The company’s other units include: cyber, political risk, political violence, financial institutions, and professional liability.
MGU Carbon Underwriting Appoints Chubb’s Turner as Property U/W
Carbon Underwriting Ltd., the specialist, independent managing general underwriter (MGU) and Lloyd’s syndicate, announced the appointment of Claire Turner as a property underwriter.
Turner joins Carbon from Chubb, where she worked for over 25 years – most recently underwriting international property binders. In her new role, she will focus on helping to expand Carbon’s existing Property book of business as well as new business development.

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Liability
Insurance Wholesale
Property
Chubb
