This edition of International People Moves details appointments at SiriusPoint and Pro MGA Global Solutions.
A summary of the new hires follows here.
SiriusPoint Taps RSA’s Hardy as Director of Sales & Distribution, Int’l
SiriusPoint Ltd., the Bermuda-based specialty re/insurer, announced it has appointed Alex Hardy as director of Sales & Distribution for its International business. Hardy, who joins on Dec. 4, 2023, will be based in London, and will report to Rob Gibbs, president & CEO, SiriusPoint International.
With more than 20 years of experience in the insurance industry, Hardy will use his market experience to build out the company’s managing general agent (MGA) proposition, in conjunction with the Stockholm-led MGA Centre of Excellence.
In addition, he will work with the international trading teams with a view to growing key international business lines such as aviation & space, casualty, credit, energy, and marine, supporting the international strategy for profitable growth, and building on the company’s Lloyd’s, London market, and delegated authority proposition.
Hardy joins SiriusPoint from RSA Insurance Group, where he was Sales and Distribution director. Prior to this, he held a number of senior roles at Lloyd’s motor syndicate ERS and Aviva.
Hardy’s hire follows a number of senior appointments at SiriusPoint this year, including Stephen Smyth, head of Marine; David Rees, head of Casualty, London; Habib Kattan, global head of Ceded Reinsurance; Anthony Shapella, deputy chief underwriting officer; Linda Lin, chief legal officer; and Trecia Sigle, global head of Claims.
Commenting on Alex’s appointment, Rob Gibbs, president & CEO, SiriusPoint International, said: “Alex’s market knowledge and unparalleled industry network will be invaluable to SiriusPoint’s ambitious growth plans over the next five years. It is imperative that we invest in the best market-facing talent, as we continue to strengthen our market leading relationships and leverage our capital and global licensing, to drive growth in our key regions.”
Hardy’s appointment also follows recent partnerships with MGAs that have emerged from SiriusPoint’s MGA Centre of Excellence: Stockholm-based Nordic Marine Insurance, and London-based MGA Eaton Gate.
Pro MGA Global Solutions Names Martin Døhlen as MD of European Platform
Pro MGA Global Solutions (Pro MGA), the independent managing general agent incubation division of Pro Global Holdings Ltd., announced the appointment of Hans Martin Døhlen as managing director of the company’s European platform, Pro MGA Solutions Europe GmbH, and director of Underwriting.
Based in Berlin, Germany, Martin Døhlen will be responsible for the growth of Pro MGA’s business in Europe, including MGA incubator and facility services, as well as oversight of all underwriting activities. He reports to Pro MGA CEO Danny Maleary.
Martin Døhlen brings with him more than 15 years’ experience in the European insurance industry, working across five different countries. Prior to joining Pro MGA, he was managing director at Volante in Germany, part of Volante Lloyd’s Syndicate 1699, according to his LinkedIn profile.
Previously, he was an executive at AIG in Europe for more than 10 years. During his tenure there, he held a number of financial lines underwriting and team leader positions before becoming executive manager for North Europe. Previously, Martin Døhlen was managing director at an MGA and a Lloyd’s syndicate.
“There are strong growth opportunities across Europe for the MGA sector and for innovative underwriting partnerships with key stakeholders, and I am very pleased to welcome Hans on board to spearhead our expansion across the region,” Maleary commented.
“His deep expertise, entrepreneurialism and insights make him the ideal person to develop our business in the European MGA market, and he will focus on growing our footprint in both establishing new MGAs and supporting insurers and reinsurers in accessing local distribution via the MGA model – an area that we believe is ideally positioned for significant growth in 2024,” he added.
“The MGA sector in Europe is set to grow significantly and the need for local market knowledge and expertise, creates a unique value proposition for re/insurers,” Martin Døhlen said, noting that Pro MGA has helped to set up more than 25 MGAs in Europe.

Topics
Europe
Insurance Wholesale
Maryland
