This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Chubb Global Markets, the broker WTW and the property and specialty re/insurer IQUW.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Chubb Global Markets Promotes Jackson as Product Head of Mgmt Liability
Chubb announced the appointment of Alex Jackson as product head of Management Liability for Chubb Global Markets (CGM), the company’s London market wholesale and specialty business including its Lloyd’s platform.
Previously senior underwriter within the CGM Management Liability team, Jackson will now lead all aspects of CGM’s Management Liability business. This includes responsibility for strategy, product and business development, underwriting and service operations, and overall profit and loss performance.
He will continue to be based in London and report to Robert Wilson, chief underwriting officer for Chubb Global Markets and active underwriter of Chubb’s Lloyd’s Syndicate 2488.
The appointment is effective immediately. Jackson succeeds Peter Bremner who is leaving the business.
Pesci Rejoins WTW as EMEA Reserving Practice Director
WTW, a leading global advisory, broking and solutions company, announced the appointment of Alessandro Pesci as EMEA reserving practice director to the company’s Insurance Consulting and Technology business.
After professional experiences outside the company, Pesci returns to WTW, where he has worked since 2008, specializing in actuarial risk consulting and software. He will now rejoin WTW’s Insurance Consulting and Technology business to support and strengthen client relationships in EMEA.
Based in WTW’s Rome office, Pesci will work closely with local client coverage teams and EMEA sales and practice leaders. He will also lead WTW’s technology and software propositions and solutions to help clients manage risk and capital, providing specific consultancy on IFRS17, reserving automation, inflation and M&A.
“We have already worked closely with Alessandro on big and complex projects, and he brings tremendous experience and industry knowledge to this role. We are delighted that he has returned to WTW and his global expertise will continue to provide strong value to our team, helping to deliver what our clients need now and in the future,” commented Alessandro Santoni, managing director, South West Division of Insurance Consulting and Technology at WTW.
IQUW Hires Beazley’s Bell and Brown for Property Team
Property and specialty reinsurer IQUW announced it has strengthened its property team with the appointments of industry veteran John Brown as lead underwriter, Property, and Stuart Bell as new head of Property Claims.
With more than 20 years’ experience in the property insurance industry, Brown joins from Beazley where he was senior underwriter. Prior to Beazley, he served as commercial property underwriter at Amlin.
Bell also previously worked at Beazley as claims focus group leader, Speciality Property. Prior to this, Bell was divisional head of Claims – Direct and Facultative Property, at specialty re/insurer Sompo Canopius.
“We are thrilled to welcome both John and Stuart to the team as we continue to grow our Property book,” said Simon Jackson, IQUW’s head of Property. “Their appointments will help us continue to enhance our proposition and strengthen our lead capability in 2023.”
As well as appointing Brown and Bell, IQUW is also invested in technology to support the underwriting team by developing next generation tools that provide real-time access to external data sources to provide valuation, mapping and risk scoring metrics.
“IQUW is committed in investing in both its people and the tools they use to ensure we offer our clients and brokers the best possible service. The data and analytics tools we are investing in will allow us to continue the momentum of building out a team of well-informed and empowered underwriters, who can price risks consistently and accurately as we strive to become a go-to market for property catastrophe insurance,” Jackson added.
A new property and specialty insurance and reinsurance business, IQUW’s products are distributed through Lloyd’s Syndicate 1856 and IQUW Agency in Bermuda. IQUW is able to write business in Bermuda through a new coverholder agreement, IQUW Agency Bermuda Ltd., which further expands IQUW’s global platform and increases its business remit in Bermuda. IQUW provides insurance cover for aviation, crisis management, cyber, cargo, marine, political risk, energy, property, D&O, financial institutions, political violence and terror and war risks, plus reinsurance for property and specialty treaty.

Topics
Liability
Property
Chubb
Willis Towers Watson
