This edition of International People Moves details appointments at RSA Luxembourg; Northcourt (the MGA and underwriter of nuclear risks), and Aon.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
O’Leary Named CEO of RSA Luxembourg
Intact Insurance Group USA LLC (doing business under the brand name Intact Insurance Specialty Solutions), and RSA Luxembourg S.A. (RSAL) announced that Lynn O’Leary has been appointed to the role of CEO, RSA Luxembourg, effective this autumn, following a transition period and receipt of regulatory approvals.
O’Leary succeeds Rachel Conran who has been in this role since 2019.
O’Leary was most recently chief operations officer, Global Specialty Lines, for Intact and has been with the organization for over 10 years. She has a deep understanding of the business operations and performance and has been key to setting the strategy, priorities, and action plan for the Global Specialty Lines group.
“I am pleased to share that Lynn O’Leary will step into the role of CEO overseeing our Europe business,” said T. Michael Miller, chief executive officer, Global Specialty Lines.
“Lynn is an exemplary leader and as CEO, RSA Luxembourg, she will ensure that our Europe business continues to grow, we remain focused on our priorities and deliver on service excellence to our broker partners and customers,” Miller added. “With Lynn’s leadership, I am confident in the engagement and commitment of the team to grow our existing lines of business, identify potential new segments that align with our expertise and capabilities and help our customers and brokers access broader expertise, additional products, and improved risk consulting capability.”
Miller thanked Conran for her service to RSA and Intact. “During her tenure, she helped to strengthen the overall performance of the business, build relationships with our broker partners and customers, and supported the transition of RSA Luxembourg to Intact and Global Specialty Lines. She leaves with our thanks and very best wishes as she pursues the next challenge in her career.”
He said Intact has set an ambitious growth strategy for Global Specialty Lines — to grow the business to $10B DPW by 2030 at a sustained, sub-90s combined ratio. “Europe is a central element of that path and as such, a key part of our strategy is to capitalize on the opportunities in Europe by leveraging the outstanding specialty lines expertise and existing distribution relationships we have locally.”
Throughout the United States, Intact Insurance Specialty Solutions’ underwriting companies offer specialty insurance products through independent agencies, regional and national brokers, wholesalers and managing general agencies. Targeted solutions include group accident and health; commercial and contract surety; entertainment; environmental; excess property; financial institutions; financial services; inland marine; management liability; ocean marine; technology; and tuition refund.
Northcourt Appoints Pool Re’s Butler as Nuclear Industry Adviser
Northcourt, the managing general agent that specializes in international nuclear risk, announced that Ed Butler has joined in a non-executive advisory capacity.
Butler, who is currently chief resilience officer at Pool Re, joins Northcourt as senior adviser to help raise Northcourt’s profile within government and the nuclear sector as a leading global authority within the nuclear insurance industry. Northcourt is a subsidiary of the London-based managing general agent Optio Group.
Reporting to Optio executive chairman Matthew Fosh, he will work alongside Northcourt Chief Executive Alan Rickett and fellow consultant and respected authority on nuclear risk, Mark Tetley. Butler will further support Northcourt in achieving its strategic ambitions, positioning and optimizing the business to meet the shifting needs of its nuclear clients at a time of great change for the industry.
Following his distinguished military career, in which he served as both commander of 22 SAS and commander of the British Forces in Afghanistan, Butler has spent the last 14 years in commercial risk consultancy and terrorism reinsurance. He brings almost four decades of experience in the geopolitical, intelligence, risk, resilience, nuclear and insurance sectors to Northcourt.
“I am excited to welcome Ed at such a pivotal moment for the nuclear industry, as it prepares to play a key role in global government plans to decarbonise their economies and hit ambitious net zero targets,” Fosh said.
“Northcourt is alive to both the challenges and the international nuclear industry’s need for attentive, creative and innovative solutions. Ed’s appointment is very much a signal of Northcourt’s intent to be a front runner in that and a powerful enabler of the nuclear industry’s future.”
“It’s an exciting time for the nuclear industry as the UK commits to an extensive programme investing in both large-scale reactors and small and advanced modular reactors,” Butler commented. “The insurance industry needs to match the New Nuclear strategy with innovative and long-term cover which provides the UK with a sustainable and secure clean energy capability.”
Aon Names Dell’Aglio as Technology Sales Leader for Strategy and Technology Group
Aon plc, a global professional services firm, named Morena Dell’Aglio as global technology sales leader within its expanding Strategy and Technology Group to serve insurers.
The team brings together a wide range of insight and software solutions to help property and casualty, life insurance and reinsurance clients build flexible and resilient enterprise structures that drive strong financial performance.
Based in Milan, Italy, and reporting to Strategy and Technology Group Chief Executive Officer Colin Forrest, Dell’Aglio will be responsible for driving client awareness and innovation across the range of technology propositions, notably Tyche, ReMetrica and PathWise.
Dell’Aglio will provide a critical link between clients and product teams, ensuring that Aon is developing solutions that the insurance industry needs to help them make better-informed decisions on business strategy while reducing operational costs, building resilience and navigating volatility.
Dell’Aglio bring more than 20 years’ experience in technology sales, 12 of which were focused on the insurance industry. She was previously technology sales leader for the EMEA ICT business within Willis Towers Watson and global technology customer relationship manager at Generali and Zurich.
Developed over the past 12 months with over 400 insurance industry experts, the Strategy and Technology Group combines strategic consulting – including claims efficiency, performance benchmarking, market share data/trends, actuarial analysis, and capital structuring and access – with a technology suite, including Tyche, ReMetrica and PathWise, which helps insurer clients deploy capital efficiently and effectively across an enterprise.

Topics
InsurTech
Tech
Aon
Willis Towers Watson
