Ryan Specialty, Chicago-based specialty insurance services firm, announced that Paradiso Risks is joining Alive Risk, Ryan Specialty’s sports, leisure and entertainment managing general underwriter.
London-based Paradiso became part of Ryan after its acquisition of Castel Underwriting Agencies in May 2024.
Paradiso is a specialty underwriting managing general underwriter focusing on contingency and non-appearance insurance. Founded in 2022, Paradiso has established itself as a premier underwriter of contingency insurance in the event cancellation and non-appearance vertical for risks in the U.S., UK, and Continental Europe. The Paradiso team has more than 35 years’ experience between two underwriters, spanning actuarial, underwriting and broking.
“We are very excited to welcome the Paradiso team to Alive Risk. Paradiso’s contingency expertise, strong carrier relationships, and excellent reputation in the entertainment and live music sector allows us to expand our contingency offerings internationally,” commented Patrick Gavin, managing director of Minneapolis-based Alive Risk, in a statement.
“Paradiso’s contingency expertise, strong carrier relationships, and excellent reputation in the entertainment and live music sector allows us to expand our contingency offerings internationally,” commented Patrick Gavin, managing director of Alive Risk, in a statement.
“Our contingency portfolio will be split into underwriting and producing segments. The underwriting division will be led by Yael Mimran and will trade under the Paradiso brand. The newly created contingency producing division will be led by Lowery Robinson and will trade under the Alive Risk brand. This strategy will bring an even more robust offering for the SLE industry,” he added.
“We are thrilled to join Alive Risk and welcome Ryan Collins and Amanda Rice to the Paradiso team,” according to Yael Mimran, Paradiso’s international head of Contingency. “Since our founding, Paradiso has focused on successfully growing a profitable contingency book of business for its carrier trading partners. We’re excited to join a team of SLE experts where we will be able to enhance our product and amplify our growth.”
In this new producing division, “we look forward to growing and expanding the contingency offering and welcome Wayne Paternoster, Aristotle Moulopoulous, Aric Durm and Andrew Enck to the team,” stated Lowery Robinson, vice president, Alive Risk.
Alive Risk is a managing general underwriter specializing in insurance products for the sports, leisure and entertainment sectors. The Alive Risk team underwrites property/casualty coverages for amusement parks, music, touring, live events, film & media productions, special events, sports teams, leagues, clinics and more.
Source: Ryan Specialty

Topics
Excess Surplus
