NFP, the New York City-based property/casualty insurance broker and consultant, announced it will rebrand two acquired firms in Ireland: Aiken Insurances and ReSure Corporate Brokers.
By combining the two firms’ commercial insurance expertise and capabilities, NFP said it is streamlining operations and creating a more integrated solution for clients.
Aiken Insurances, a retail and wholesale commercial insurance broker, and ReSure Corporate Brokers, a specialist commercial insurance broker, will both be fully rebranded as NFP by the end of October 2022. Aiken Insurances was acquired by NFP in August 2021, while Resure Corporate Brokers was purchased in April 2022.
The rebrand of these Dublin-based companies aligns with NFP’s long-term strategy in Europe. The rebrands will also help NFP further establish its Irish operations as it continues to expand across the continent. NFP’s Irish operations have successfully placed commercial policies for global clients conducting business in Europe.
“Adopting the NFP brand brings our Irish assets together for the benefit of our employees and clients,” said Matt Pawley, president, NFP in Europe. “The team from Aiken Insurances and ReSure Corporate Brokers have already proven to be excellent additions to NFP, and with a unified brand, we will take the business even further.”
NFP will continue to operate its existing office locations in Dublin, including Malahide, the Docklands and Dun Laoghaire, providing more workplace flexibility and choice for employees.
“NFP’s operations in Ireland are firmly positioned to support our ambition to expand across Europe,” said Pawley. “We are actively recruiting insurance professionals in Ireland, and now is a great time to join the NFP team. We are committed to ensuring NFP is a great place to work and build a rewarding career.”
Source: NFP Corp.

Topics
Europe
