Miller, the leading independent specialist re/insurance broker, announced the expansion of its Delegated Authority team with the appointment of five new hires to form a dedicated Canadian unit.
The new team will be formed by Steve Maslen, Matt Dear, Mike Biddle, Saif Sulaiman and Nick Wilson, who each join from Tysers and bring with them significant experience in the Canadian property/casualty market. The team will be led by Maslen and Dear with both bringing longstanding experience of operating in the London Market including a specific focus on Canadian business.
The new team will sit within Miller’s wider Delegated Authority business and report to Chris Hardcastle, head of Delegated Authority.
The appointments reflect Miller’s continued investment in broadening its product offering and jurisdictional capabilities in the Delegated Authority space and follows the appointment of Hardcastle as head of Delegated Authority in April.
“We are delighted to welcome the team to Miller. These appointments bring significant expertise, experience and relationships that will further enhance our exceptional Delegated Authority capabilities and are a great complement to our existing operations,” commented Hardcastle.
“Miller has a great reputation in the market and this is an exciting opportunity to continue building out their fast growing proposition in the Delegated Authority space. We are hugely excited to be joining and look forward to the many opportunities that lie ahead,” Maslen said.
“The excellent culture and support network at Miller was a huge draw for the team. Their commitment to meeting the ever-changing needs of clients creates a great environment to look at business in a new and innovative way. I very much look forward to working with Chris and the rest of the Delegated Authority team to continue enhancing Miller’s capabilities in this space,” Dear added.

Topics
Canada
