omni:us, the Berlin-based provider of artificial intelligence-powered insurance claims automation, has closed its €12 million ($12.4 million) Series A+ expansion financing round with W&W subsidiary Württembergische Versicherung, as well as existing investors.
With this financing, the company plans to further invest in its end-2-end claims automation technology and expand its team and presence in Europe and the UK.
“This Series A+ builds on an exceptional year for omni:us. We were able to add leading insurance companies to our customer base in Europe, launch key feature enhancements to our AIaaS (Artificial Intelligence-as-a-Service) offering – the omni:us Digital Claims Adjuster – and at the same time strengthen our team with outstanding talent. We are particularly excited about the participation of W&W subsidiary Württembergische Versicherung and the strong commitment of our existing investors,” commented Martin Micko, chief commercial officer and co-founder of omni:us.
With this strategic investment, Württembergische Versicherung is taking the next step in the digitalization of the entire W&W Group, while omni:us is securing Württembergische’s many years of successful and comprehensive market expertise. Both companies said they are aiming to further deepen their cooperation.
“The subsidiaries of W&W stand for stability and success for over 100 years. Over the past year of our collaboration, we were able to gain impressive insights into the strong foundation they have built over the last century,” according to Sofie Quidenus-Wahlforss, CEO & co-founder of omni:us.
“With their constant openness to innovate and overwhelming reliability, they have proven to be an exceptional partner. This is an excellent prerequisite for an effective and successful path ahead to help shape the future of insurance together. We are very much looking forward to learning from, and working with, them,” she added.
About omni:us
Founded in 2015, omni:us consists of 68 AI and insurance experts from more than 20 nations. The omni:us Digital Claims Adjuster (DCA) enables seamlessly integrated exchange-to-exchange (E2E) claims automation within legacy applications and existing insurance core systems, such as Guidewire, Sapiens & SAP. Integrated reference claims processes for P/C and health insurance, as well as a comprehensive AI-powered claims decision catalogue, help insurers reduce process costs by up to 35% – while drastically increasing efficiency, speed of settlement and customer satisfaction.
Related:

Topics
InsurTech
Claims
Data Driven
Artificial Intelligence
