This edition of International People details appointments at AXA XL and Lockton Re.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
AXA XL Promotes Pearman to New Role of Chief Underwriting Officer, Bermuda
As part of its recently announced insurance underwriting operations reorganization in the Americas, AXA XL has appointed Noel Pearman to the new role of chief underwriting officer, Bermuda.
Pearman, who reports to Donna Nadeau, AXA XL’s insurance head of Large Commercial, Americas, is responsible for leading the Bermuda insurance business, developing and executing the underwriting and distribution strategy, while collaborating with the other Americas underwriting business leaders.
With more than 20 years of industry experience, Pearman brings to the new role a combination of direct portfolio management expertise, technical underwriting acumen, and proven leadership, the company said in a statement.
Prior to taking on the new role, Pearman was SVP, cyber product line leader at AXA XL, where he built the Bermuda market cyber liability business, oversaw cyber exposure across all product lines (including property and casualty), and was a frequent international conference speaker and organizer.
Within AXA XL, he has been a member of the Rising Leaders 2022 Cohort, the America’s CUO Extended Leadership Team 2022 Cohort, and the 2023-2024 Leadership Team Advisory Council.
In addition to his day-to-day responsibilities at AXA XL, Pearman co-chairs the Association for Corporate Racial Equity (ACRE) which works to advance racial equity in Bermuda’s International Business sector. He is also a global executive sponsor of AXA XL’s Rise Business Resource Group, which focuses on developing employees from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups.
Pearman is a graduate of the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst, UK (Territorial Army Commissioning Course) and obtained a Bachelor of Arts degree (Hons.) in Economics from Western University in Canada. He also holds a Registered Professional Liability Underwriter designation.
Lockton Re Taps Former Aon Execs for Marine & Energy Division, Lloyd’s Capital Unit
Lockton Re, the reinsurance business of the world’s largest privately held independent insurance broker, announced two senior appointments: James Mackay as head of Lloyd’s Capital and Andy Wakefield as a senior broker in the Marine & Energy division.
As head of Lloyd’s Capital – a new role for Lockton Re – Mackay joins from Aon where he was head of Lloyd’s Relationships and also an executive director of Aon Securities. He brings over 30 years of market experience having started his career at Argenta Private Capital and then moving to Argenta Holdings as business development director. He is based in London.
Wakefield will be joining as a senior broker in the Marine & Energy division later this year and will be based in London. He has been a marine and energy reinsurance broker for 34 years, most recently at Aon Reinsurance where he sat on the Marine Executive committee and drove new business production.
Wakefield started his career at Tysers and has also spent time at Benfield, and subsequently at Aon Benfield, as well as spending time at Willis Re.

Topics
Excess Surplus
Lloyd's
Aon
AXA XL
