Ventis, the commercial and residential real estate managing general agent that provides tailored solutions for a range of property profiles, has opened for business.
Founded by Gareth Roberts, previously head of Covéa’s Mid-Market Specialist and Network division, Ventis offers an extensive range of coverage, backed by a team of qualified market trading underwriters, London-based Ventis said.
It is targeting medium-sized property risks, with a remit to find and capitalize on standard risks overlooked in the property market from £50,000 to more than £1 million ($63,600 to $1.3 million).
Ventis will write UK risks with a range of cover extensions, including buildings, loss of rent, employers’ liability, property owners’ liability, terrorism, and optional legal expenses. Ventis said it will work closely with a select group of partner brokers to do this.
Ventis aims to underwrite a broad range of SME and mid-sized property risks, focusing on standard risks overlooked by larger insurers.
The Ventis team of highly experienced underwriters include:
“Ventis is designed to be a breath of fresh air for the property insurance market. Our ethos is based on prioritising high-quality service to brokers and clients and using this as the platform to build productive partnerships that will last for the long term,” commented Gareth Roberts, CEO, Ventis.
“We provide flexible underwriting services to the same high standards as the major players but are committed to investing in broker relationships and giving them easy access to underwriters, as well as rapid service delivery,” he added.
“I believe there is a huge opportunity in the market for a real estate MGA that is willing to invest in broker relationships and can provide real and flexible underwriting service to the same high standards as the major players,” Roberts continued. “Our business model is built on giving brokers easy access to underwriters and rapid service delivery so that we can build partnerships that will last for the long term.”
Ventis is launching with the support of MGA incubator Mission Underwriters and long-term capacity provided by Accelerant Insurance Europe.
Source: Ventis

Topics
Insurance Wholesale
