Almost a million more properties in England are at risk of flooding than previously thought, raising concerns about a growing number of uninsurable or unsellable properties over the coming decades.
Data from the Environment Agency on Tuesday showed 6.3 million homes and businesses are in danger of damage from overflowing rivers, sea or drains. That’s up nearly 15% from 5.5 million in its previous assessment in 2018.
The report comes as the UK is reeling from the impacts of Storm Darragh that hit earlier this month, while many homeowners are still dealing with the ongoing effects of heavy rainfall through last winter and fall.
While most homes facing flood damage can still get insurance through a program known as Flood Re, that is due to end in 2039, with the dangers posed by climate change set to continue. The program also doesn’t cover homes built after 2009, so those being constructed currently won’t be eligible for cover.
The increase in the number of homes classed at risk is because the Environment Agency has better access to data. It also improved surface water risk assessments, which is when rainwater overwhelms the drainage system causing flash floods.
As a result, 1.1 million properties are seen at high risk of flooding from surface water, nearly a third of which are in London. But London properties are less affected by overflowing river water because of 10 giant steel gates in the east of the city, known as the Thames Barrier, that can be raised to stop water breaching the banks.
The new analysis, for the first time, also looks at the impact of climate change and estimates that some 8 million English properties — one in four — could be risk by mid-century.
Floods Minister Emma Hardy said the government has committed £2.4 billion ($3 billion) over the next two years to maintain, repair and build flood defenses across the country.
Photograph: Walkers stand next to floodwaters submerging the A1101 in Norfolk on Oct. 08, 2024 in Welney, England. Drivers faced a 22 mile detour after the Old Bedford River and the River Delph burst their banks after recent heavy rain. (Photo by Dan Kitwood/Getty Images)

Topics
Flood
