Specialist Risk Group (SRG), the London-headquartered broker, announced the acquisition of Fleet and Commercial, subject to regulatory approval. The deal enhances SRG’s existing commercial motor capability and is a continuation of its growth strategy.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
Fleet and Commercial is a specialist insurance broker founded in 2011. Based in Oxfordshire, the business has grown rapidly in that time and now works UK-wide supporting a range of different industries, trades and businesses, from tradespeople, SMEs and large corporates.
Fleet and Commercial will now form part of SRG’s growing Retail division, Specialist Risk Insurance Solutions (SRIS), led by Oliver Thorne who was announced as its managing director in October 2022.  Tony McLeman and Tom West will continue to lead the business to deliver an ambitious organic and strategic growth plan over the coming years.
“Fleet and Commercial is a leader in its field with a culture very much aligned to ours, which will add tremendous value to our existing motor capability. They are an ambitious, forward-thinking business and we are looking forward to working together in the future,” commented Lee Anderson, SRG deputy CEO, in a statement.
“On the back of an outstanding year of organic growth in 2022, SRIS is in a great position and poised to go from strength to strength, and I know the Fleet and Commercial team will play a significant contribution to achieving our goal,” Anderson added.
“Today marks the start of an exciting new chapter for us all at Fleet and Commercial. Specialist Risk Group is a natural partner for us as we enter our next phase of growth. It shares the same principle of being a high-growth, people and culture focused business,” according to McLeman, Fleet and Commercial’s company director.

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Commercial Lines
