Mission Underwriters, the MGA incubator, announced the launch of Carrow Insurance, under the leadership of Ronan Conboy, the former CEO of AmTrust International.
Carrow is set to focus on warranty, accident & health, and income protection products in the UK and Europe. The business plans to leverage a robust network of brokers and distribution partners supported by A- rated capacity from Mission’s long-term capacity provider, Accelerant. Carrow has plans to expand into additional lines as part of its broader growth strategy for 2025.
“Mission doesn’t just invest in businesses; we bet on visionaries who can reshape the insurance landscape,” said Adrian Morgan, CEO of Mission Underwriters UK & Europe, in a statement.
“Ronan’s track record of driving global growth at AmTrust International isn’t just impressive, it’s exactly the kind of disruptive thinking the industry needs. He’s not here to follow the market, but to push it forward,” Morgan said. “With Carrow, we’re not looking for incremental gains. We’re backing Ronan to challenge the status quo and deliver the kind of value that makes clients and competitors alike sit up and take notice.”
The launch of Carrow, which will open for business in the coming weeks, marks the 25th MGA to join the Mission stable globally.
About Mission Underwriters
Backed by Altamont Capital, a US private equity firm with over $4.3 billion of capital under management, Mission Underwriters was established in the US in 2021. Mission Underwriting UK Ltd. was established in the UK in 2022.
Source: Mission Underwriters

Topics
Insurance Wholesale
