Apollo, the London-based insurance group, announced they have expanded their offering into drone product liability.
Apollo is providing the capacity for this product liability offering as part of an existing binder with Moonrock, the specialist managing general agent.
Moonrock has developed the product liability cover to support the wider drone community and now offers a high-quality range of hobby, commercial and non-standard policies backed by A-rated capacity.
The product is available to customers globally.
“We have successfully extended our offering into drone product manufacturers legal liability having bound policies already and foresee that to increase as the business grows,” commented Martin Jackson, class leader, Aviation, Apollo. “We have a very strong partnership with Moonrock and look forward to continued success in innovation in the market.”
“We’re pleased to introduce the newest game-changer in our product suite: we’re now empowering drone manufacturers with the product liability coverage they need to thrive,” said Simon Ritterband, managing director and founder of London-based Moonrock.
“Our products already cover an incredible range of drone operations including agricultural spraying and film production to drone deliveries, BVLOS flights, and the booming eVTOL (passenger drone) sector,” Ritterband added. “Now, with the addition of product liability insurance, we’re taking things to the next level and adding a powerful new tool to our arsenal.”
Apollo offers insurance products across property, casualty, marine, energy & transportation, specialty, reinsurance and smart follow divisions through Syndicate 1969. Through Syndicate 1971 it offers digital and embedded risk programs.
Source: Apollo
Photograph: A drone flies at one of the Federal Aviation Administration’s designated drone testing sites run by nonprofit Northeast UAS Airspace Integration Research Alliance Inc., at Griffiss International Airport in Rome, N.Y., on June 11, 2021. (AP Photo/Matt O’Brien)

Topics
Liability
