This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Everest Insurance International and Swiss Re Corporate Solutions.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Everest Insurance Int’l Taps Zurich’s Powell to Lead Financial Lines
Everest Insurance, the primary insurance division of Everest Re Group Ltd., announced that Timothy Powell has joined the company as head of Financial Lines.
Based in London, Powell will report to Adam Clifford, co-lead of Everest Insurance International. He succeeds Christian Colombera who will assume the role of managing director of Australia and head of the Pacific Region, pending regulatory approval.
Powell brings more than three decades of experience to Everest’s Financial Lines portfolio. He will be responsible for overseeing underwriting, market engagement and treaty purchasing for the company’s international financial lines customers. Most recently, he served as global head of Financial Lines & Cyber for Zurich Insurance Group, where he successfully developed the financial lines and cyber portfolios. Prior to that, Powell held a variety of leadership roles with increasing responsibility at AXA XL, Allianz Australia Insurance Limited and AIG.
“As a key driver of the global economy, financial services is an incredibly important market, and Timothy’s appointment reinforces our investment and commitment to financial lines buyers and brokers in need of Everest’s partnership,” said Clifford.
“Timothy brings a unique perspective to our team, having led and developed Financial Lines portfolios in key regions, and he will be instrumental in positioning Everest as a leader in this market,” he added.
“Timothy’s caliber of talent and expertise is exactly what Everest needs to best support our clients and drive growth in key business lines and geographies,” said Mike Karmilowicz, president and CEO of Everest Insurance. “Financial Lines is the lifeblood of our international business, and given the complexities of the financial services market, we have brought on a strong leader whose deep expertise will evolve our portfolio for the future.”
Swiss Re Corporate Solutions Names Arquint CEO EMEA, Succeeding Kleiterp
Swiss Re Corporate Solutions announced it has appointed Nina Arquint as CEO Europe, Middle East & Africa (EMEA), effective Feb. 1, 2023. In this role, Arquint will be responsible for managing the strategy, development, and performance of the company in the region’s commercial insurance markets. She succeeds Fred Kleiterp who has decided to leave Swiss Re.
Arquint joined Corporate Solutions from Swiss Re Group Risk Management, where she was head Group Qualitative Risk Management and already member of Swiss Re’s Risk Management Executive Team. Prior to joining Swiss Re, Arquint was head of the Strategic Services Division and member of the Executive Board of the Swiss Financial Markets Supervisory Authority FINMA.
Annette Kurtzweil, currently chief risk officer (CRO) North America at Swiss Re Corporate Solutions, will succeed Arquint in the role of CRO Swiss Re Corporate Solutions globally.
“Nina is an experienced leader having headed up our Risk Management and Actuarial Reserving team since 2019. Over the past few years Nina has developed a strong profile and network in the commercial insurance market as our face for sustainability. This combination gives her the ideal background for this position,” said Andreas Berger, CEO Swiss Re Corporate Solutions.
“I would like to extend my gratitude to Fred for his passion and dedication to Corporate Solutions. He has overseen the growth of the EMEA business and leaves the regional team in a very strong position supported with a wealth of talent,” he added.

Topics
Swiss Re
