Howden, the London-based insurance broker, announced it has expanded its offering in Switzerland with the acquisition of insurance brokers argenius Risk Experts AG (argenius) and RVA Versicherungsbroker AG (RVA). Born Consulting AG, which has been part of Howden Switzerland since 2022, is acquiring RVA.
Financial details of the transactions were not disclosed.
Both argenius and RVA are highly regarded Swiss insurance brokers and will strengthen Howden Switzerland’s offering to large institutions and SMEs, providing clients with greater access to specialist expertise and international reach via their local market.
argenius primarily advises medium-sized companies and large organizations, specializing in sophisticated risk analysis and portfolio placement; while RVA works with small and medium-sized businesses on all insurance and risk issues, in addition to being a specialty broker with a focus on social institutions.
The acquisition of argenius and RVA follows the successful acquisitions of three Swiss brokers in the last two years including the aforementioned Born Consulting, Bachmann & Partners and Broker Center Zurichsee.
Upon completion, argenius and RVA will take Howden Switzerland to a headcount of 130 across eight regions including Zurich, Basel, Zug, Bern, Lucerne, Chur, Geneva, Lugano and the principality of Liechtenstein.
“We are delighted to welcome argenius and RVA to Howden Switzerland as we fast become the natural home for independent brokers in region,” commented Felix C. Jenny, CEO of Howden Switzerland, Austria and Liechtenstein. ” The addition of these like-minded, entrepreneurial-spirited businesses advances our ambitious growth strategy for the region and brings us one step closer to becoming the leading broker of choice in Switzerland.”
Luigi Sturani, CEO of Howden Europe, said: “The acquisition of argenius and RVA comes at an exciting time, as demand grows across Europe for increasingly sophisticated insurance products and services. Combining the local, specialist expertise of argenius and RVA with Howden’s international offering will strengthen our position as one of the leading brokers in Europe capable of providing the scale, expertise and range of bespoke solutions that clients require.”
Founded in 1994, Howden Group operates in 50 countries across Europe, Africa, Asia, the Middle East, Latin America, the USA, Australia and New Zealand, employing 14,500 people and handling $30 billion of premium on behalf of clients.
Source: Howden

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
