This edition of International People Moves details appointments at AXIS Capital Holdings and Lockton Re.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
AXIS Names White as Head of Aviation, Succeeding Wood
AXIS Capital Holdings Ltd., the Bermuda-based re/insurer, announced that David White will become head of Aviation, AXIS Global Markets, effective Oct. 1, 2024.
He succeeds Terry Wood who has decided to retire at the end of September 2024. One of AXIS’ earliest team members, Wood has enjoyed a 22-year tenure with the firm.
White joined AXIS in 2020 and has since been a key member of the aviation leadership team in the position of head of Airline and Aerospace following his time at various insurers as well as broker firm Aon where he was head broker for Aerospace and Airline.
“Today we are announcing a change in leadership of our aviation division—a bittersweet moment as we bid farewell to Terry Wood, one of our longest serving leaders,” said Mark Gregory, head of Global Markets, AXIS. “Terry is a trusted and well-respected leader in the aviation market. Not only has he grown our aviation portfolio and team from a standing start, he also led the successful integration of Aviabel into the AXIS family. He is leaving a legacy of a thriving aviation insurance business and team.”
Gregory said that White has extensive experience in both the insurer and broker aviation markets. “He will be responsible for the continued growth of our aviation business in the UK, Europe, and Bermuda.”
Lockton Re Names Lynn for New Agriculture Practice, Ferrier for US West Coast Build-Out
Lockton Re, the reinsurance business of the privately held independent insurance broker Lockton, announced that Kristopher Lynn has joined Lockton Re as a senior broker and practice leader for Agriculture. Kristopher will be based in Lockton Re’s growing Bermuda office working with colleagues and clients globally.
Kristopher Lynn joins from Terra Underwriting Management and previous to that he was president of AgriSompo, Sompo’s agriculture division, in Bermuda, which he joined in 2014. He has nearly 20 years of industry experience having also spent time at Tokio Millenium Re and ACE, in addition to his board roles at Gestione Rischi Agricoli Integrati and A&A S.r.l.
In a separate announcement, Lockton Re announced that Andrew Ferrier has been hired as a senior broker initiating the build-out of Lockton Re’s West Coast Property and Casualty business. He will be based in San Francisco.
Ferrier brings over 30 years of industry and reinsurance broking experience to Lockton Re, specializing in servicing MGA business, regional insurance carriers, and large national writers. Most recently, Ferrier was managing director at Guy Carpenter, handling various lines of business, including E&S casualty, commercial property, professional liability, auto, and served as the West Coast liaison for the MGA Programs Practice. Before that, he was appointed head of the MGA business for the Western Region and managed the San Francisco office for JLT Re. He has also held various broking leadership roles at Aon and Aon Benfield.
Ferrier is the latest to join the growing team in Lockton Re’s San Francisco office, which also includes Peter Robinson and Liz Staggs, who joined the Accident Health and Life business in May of this year.

Topics
USA
Aviation
Agribusiness
