This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Markel and Generali Global Corporate & Commercial.
A summary of these new hires follows.
Markel Taps AEGIS London’s Pressman as Senior Underwriter, Marine Cargo
Markel, the insurance operations within Markel Group Inc., announced the appointment of David Pressman as senior underwriter – Marine Cargo, with immediate effect.
Pressman will support the profitable expansion of Markel’s marine cargo portfolio in London, by servicing new and renewal business as well as fostering strong relationships with broker partners, ensuring high service levels are maintained. He will also be responsible for identifying new areas to scale further profitable growth and supporting members in the marine cargo underwriting team with their professional development.
Pressman is a seasoned underwriter possessing 11 years of experience within the insurance industry. Before joining Markel, he was employed at AEGIS London, where he served in a marine cargo underwriting capacity. Before this position, Pressman spent more than eight years at MS Amlin, starting out as a binding authority technician before progressing to the role of marine cargo underwriter.
Based at Markel’s London office, Pressman will report directly to Brook Styles, head of Marine Cargo.”The marine cargo market is continuing to navigate a plethora of challenges – from the ongoing geopolitical tensions in the Red Sea to the increase in natural disasters – which are causing supply chains disruptions and security concerns for the transportation of goods worldwide,” commented Styles.
Generali Global Corporate & Commercial Names Chubb’s Selff as Head of Underwriting Asia
Generali Global Corporate & Commercial (GC&C) has appointed Nicholas Selff appointed as new head of Underwriting, Asia, effective Nov. 18.
Selff has a strong background in the property/casualty insurance industry, having worked for over 15 years in various positions across the APAC region, where he gained deep knowledge of all relevant technical and commercial aspects. He has held key leadership positions in renowned companies including Chubb, AIG, and Zurich.
Selff joins Generali from Chubb where he most recently served as the head of Property and Casualty in Malaysia, having previously held senior regional leadership positions with Chubb in Singapore.
“We are excited to introduce Nick as a new member of our leadership team. His expertise will be instrumental in advancing our business throughout Asia, addressing our clients’ needs with bespoke solutions and top-tier risk advisory services,” commented Axel Roesner, head of GC&C Asia. “Nick will spearhead our initiatives for profitable growth, technical excellence, and risk engineering across all business lines and markets. I am confident that his addition will significantly enhance our strategy for growth and innovation.”

Topics
Underwriting
Trucking
London
Chubb
