This edition of International People Moves details appointments at SCOR and AXIS Capital Holdings.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
SCOR Taps Allianz’s Schaefer as Global Head of Casualty & EIL, Succeeding Carerras
SCOR announced the appointment of Holger Schaefer as global head of Casualty & EIL, within SCOR Business Solutions, effective March 1, 2025.
Holger will be based in Cologne and will report to Claire McDonald, CEO of SCOR Business Solutions.
He replaces Daniel Carerras, who took on the role of chief underwriting officer, Casualty, across both Insurance and Reinsurance in 2024.
Previously, Holger spent 35 years with the Allianz Group and held various senior management positions in Underwriting and Sales & Distribution. He worked for over 15 years on the underwriting casualty side and was the head of Casualty for AGCS Germany.
He built the first sales team in AGCS Germany with key account and broker relationship management and was later asked to roll this concept out in his role as global head of Sales & Distribution. He then worked as CEO for AGCS Pacific, based in Sydney, and in his last assignment as regional CEO APAC for Allianz Trade, based in Hong Kong.
Holger will lead the teams across the US, Europe and APAC at a time of growth for SCOR Business Solutions, which recently welcomed Brett Solway to drive the UK Casualty book.
AXIS Promotes Cucciniello to Head of Primary Casualty
AXIS Capital Holdings Ltd., the Bermuda-based re/insurer, announced the promotion of Steve Cucciniello to head of Primary Casualty, effective immediately.
He reports to Anna Tan, head of Wholesale Casualty at AXIS.
In this role, Cucciniello will lead the AXIS Primary Casualty team, providing dedicated leadership for the portfolio. He will be responsible for advancing the AXIS Primary Casualty strategy by partnering closely with strategic brokers and delivering elevated service to customers.
Cucciniello’s assignment underscores AXIS’ focus on driving targeted growth within casualty by leveraging high caliber talent for the industries it covers, including but not limited to construction, manufacturing, real estate, and hospitality.
Cucciniello joined AXIS in 2014 and most recently served as senior vice president, Primary Casualty. He brings over 30 years of industry experience to his new role.

Topics
Casualty
Allianz
