Global insurer Allianz is moving to substantially expand its business from customers in the global insurance program sector and serve the increasing demand from large and medium-size companies needing cross-border coverage.
Its international corporate insurance carrier, Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty (AGCS), is adding a new multinational program business team, making dedicated investments in data and technology, and expanding its customer services.
To support its multinational customers, AGCS has moved the management board responsibility to the regions and markets area led by Henning Haagen, who oversees market-facing activities including distribution.
The new AGCS multinational set-up also includes a strengthened global leadership team and enhanced regional responsibilities with Guy Money, currently global head of product at AGCS, being named global head of multinational business.
The AGCS Captive Solutions team, led by Brian McNamara, will be integrated into the multinational business to serve customers with a broad range of services from traditional, multi-line global programs to captive fronting and reinsurance as well as hybrid combinations of traditional and alternative risk transfer.
Other key leadership appointments in the new AGCS multinational team include Jayesh Patel who is leading the multinational market practice team. He and his regional representatives will work with AGCS’ global and regional distribution teams to drive business development in target markets.
Karol Dobias remains in charge of the business excellence unit responsible for global standards, performance tracking and steering.
The network management team is overseen by Melanie Windirsch, who is responsible to deliver local services across all network countries.
Nigel Leppitt will oversee the multinational transformation program.

Topics
Allianz
