AXA XL Risk Consulting announced the launch of its Water Impact and Sustainability Evaluation (WISE) tool – a remote, customizable solution which helps risk managers to understand, evaluate and act on water risks.
Amid a changing climate, water risks affect almost every industry, bringing financial and operational challenges. WISE evaluates risks across three key components – physical, regulatory, and reputational – in addition to considering process efficiency and business continuity, to provide an adaptable evaluation framework.
“Water-related issues including water scarcity, poor water quality and flooding can have a significant impact on a company’s risk profile. WISE helps clients to better understand their evolving exposure and how to address these challenges,” commented Jonathan Salter, global head of Risk Consulting at AXA XL.
“WISE uses information from various sources and risk factors and the results are structured in an interactive dashboard, allowing clients to compare risks, see site-specific data, and download reports easily. By combining our consultants’ experience with digital services, we’re able to gain deeper insight into our clients’ risks and continue to increase understanding of these topics,” Salter said.
Suzanne Scatliffe, director of Sustainability, AXA XL, added: “Creating a water-secure world requires water resources to be protected and properly managed. All stakeholders relying on water should understand how changes in global climate will impact their financial security, which is why it’s important that we continue to raise awareness of these topics.”
The WISE tool will be available in the UK, Europe and APAC initially.
Source: AXA XL

Topics
InsurTech
Tech
AXA XL
