This edition of International People Moves details appointments at AXA XL, Howden and MS Amlin.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
AXA XL Names Benet Global Chief Underwriting Officer, Succeeding Bewlay
AXA XL has named Libby Benet to the role of global chief underwriting officer (GCUO), succeeding Nancy Bewlay, who recently assumed leadership of AXA XL’s global reinsurance operation.
Benet joined AXA XL in 2020, assuming the new role of chief underwriting officer for Cyber, tasked with closely monitoring the cyber risk portfolio and exposure from an aggregated global product view. When AXA XL implemented its new operating model, she expanded her role, assuming global chief underwriting officer responsibilities for all financial lines, including cyber. She is based in New York.
Prior to her tenure at AXA XL, Benet managed her own consultancy where she assisted insurance company clients in the development and implementation of new insurance products and consultation on the set up of underwriting and claims systems and feedback on reinsurance purchasing. Her insurance career also includes positions with Beazley, General Reinsurance and Zurich.
Benet is a graduate of Towson University and the University of Baltimore School of Law. She is a member of the Maryland State Bar as well as a Certified Information Privacy Professional (CIPP US) and Certified Information Privacy Manager (CIPM) through the International Association of Privacy Professionals.
“Given the GCUO’s responsibility for underwriting governance, pricing, risk aggregation and global product strategy, this is a big role to fill, and Libby is well prepared for it,” said AXA XL CEO Scott Gunter.
Howden Hires Marsh’s Neild to Lead UK Cyber Retail Practice
Howden, the London-based international insurance broker, announces the appointment of Sarah Neild as head of UK Cyber Retail. Neild will report to David Rees, and will be based in London.
Neild joins Howden from Marsh and brings with her over 30 years of experience in the cyber market. She has held senior positions in the cyber, media and technology specialist teams at Marsh, where she is currently a senior vice president, working across a broad range of sectors including broadcasters and telecommunications companies. Neild will strengthen Howden’s existing cyber proposition for the benefit of its clients.
Neild will join Howden in November once her contractual obligations have been fulfilled.
This is another significant senior hire for Howden, following the January appointment of Adam Reed to head Howden’s large and complex risk team, which services major corporates primarily in the FTSE 100/250. Previously, Reed spent more than six years as global client relationship director for Willis Towers Watson, according to his LinkedIn profile. Between 2007 and 2015, Reed was a senior relationship officer for Marsh. 
MS Amlin Taps Compre’s Margetts for Strategy Team
MS Amlin Underwriting Ltd. (MS AUL), the Lloyd’s re/insurer, announces the appointment of Rob Margetts. Margetts will join MS AUL in the coming months, and will report to Martyn Rodden, director of Strategy & Transformation.
In his new role, Margetts will help develop and implement a range of strategic initiatives identified by the business, following a strategic review by MS AUL’s executive team in 2021. This includes plans across current and legacy portfolios, as well as supporting MS AUL’s longer-term strategic ambitions, working with parent company Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance (MSI) and U.S.-based sister company MS Amlin Distribution Holdings.
He brings more than two decades of industry experience in the re/insurance market and joins from legacy specialist, Compre, where he has spent six years. He started at Compre as the head of M&A, responsible for executing all transactions, before becoming head of Lloyd’s in 2020, overseeing all operational aspects of the relationships with Compre’s managing agent and Lloyd’s of London, as well as leading the development of new business opportunities.
Prior to Compre, Margetts held several roles at Aviva, both within its UK General Insurance business as the head of Strategic Capital Management and head of Capital Management, with Aviva Group. Margetts also spent a decade in the re/insurance consulting space, including eight years at KPMG.

Topics
Cyber
Mississippi
AXA XL
