This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Tokio Marine HCC – Specialty Group and The London P&I Club.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Tokio Marine HCC Expands Product Recall Offering With 2 Hires From AXA XL
Tokio Marine HCC (TMHCC) – Specialty Group, a member of the Tokio Marine HCC group of companies, announced it is launching a new product recall offering in London, with two senior appointments to its Crisis Management team.
With over 25 years of underwriting experience, Mark Hutton has been appointed to the newly created role of head of Crisis Management, International, effective 13 May 2024. Previously, Hutton served as global product head – Product Recall, at AXA XL, as well as head of Casualty at McLarens Young International.
In his new role, Hutton will be responsible for leading the International Crisis Management business, with a focus on growing the product recall class, including food and beverage, and automotives, as well as expanding into other product areas.
Hutton is joined by Ian Davidson as senior underwriter, Crisis Management. Davidson also comes from AXA XL, having previously spent two years in Sydney, underwriting the APAC region for Product Recall for XL Catlin, as well as handling kidnap & ransom and political violence lines, before moving to London in 2015.
“This new team represents a key extension of our market-leading U.S. product recall expertise, which will support our growth ambitions for this class in London,” commented Philip Hall, managing director of Tokio Marine HCC – Specialty Group’s International Division.
Tokio Marine HCC is a member of the Tokio Marine Group, a global company founded in 1879 with a market capitalization of $49 billion as of Dec. 31, 2023. Headquartered in Houston, Texas, Tokio Marine HCC is a leading specialty insurance group with offices in the United States, Mexico, the United Kingdom and Continental Europe.
London P&I Club’s CEO Gooch to Step Down, Succeeded by Bean
The London P&I Club announced that Ian Gooch will be stepping down during the year from the role of chief executive officer after 15 years as CEO and 21 years as a director of A.Bilbrough & Co., the company that manages The London P&I Club.
Subject to regulatory approval, Gooch will be succeeded by James Bean, from NorthStandard P&I Club.
A qualified solicitor, Bean has worked within the marine insurance industry since 2005 and was appointed to the NorthStandard’s senior leadership team in February 2023. Prior to that he was the group managing director at the Standard Club.
To ensure an orderly transition, Gooch will continue as a member of the A Bilbrough & Co. team, providing support to Bean and the senior management team.
“Having served The London P&I Club and Bilbrough for over two decades, I am very proud of what our team has accomplished. After such a tenure, following a strong renewals season and the Club’s positive trajectory, I feel the time is right to step aside. I am confident that the Club will continue its growth as an independent mutual marine insurance provider under James’ leadership and that he will bring new perspectives and opportunities to evolve. He is exceptionally experienced and brings a deep industry knowledge, a proven track-record of success and a shared appreciation of the values of the Club,” Gooch commented.
The London P&I Club provides marine protection and Indemnity (P&I), freight, demurrage and defence (FD&D) and war risks cover to an international membership of shipowners and charterers with a combined tonnage totaling 69m gross tonnage. It is also one of The International Group of P&I Club’s 12 member clubs, which together provide marine mutual cover to approximately 90% of the world’s ocean-going tonnage.

Topics
London
AXA XL
