This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Sompo International, AXA XL Reinsurance and Gallagher Re.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Sompo Int’l Taps Berkshire’s Crozier for UK Retail Casualty
Sompo International Holdings Ltd., a global Bermuda-based specialty provider of property and casualty insurance and reinsurance, announced the appointment of Christian Crozier as senior vice president, head of UK Retail Casualty.
He is based in London and reports to Mike Reid, executive vice president, head of Casualty, Global Markets, Commercial P&C Insurance.
Crozier has worked for more than 25 years underwriting casualty business in the London market for leading international insurers. He joins Sompo International from Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance, where he was senior casualty underwriter for the UK and Southern Europe.
“Building on the foundations of our London wholesale business we are making significant strides in developing our retail casualty offering and Christian is a powerful addition to our team. Predominantly focused on the UK, he will have responsibility for leading our retail casualty segment,” said Reid.
“Working alongside colleagues from other product lines, multinational servicing, claims and risk engineering, he will help drive our value proposition for our clients as we look to grow our customer base.”
AXA XL Re Promotes Abend to New Property Role in Bermuda
AXA XL Reinsurance announced it has appointed Tristan Abend to the newly expanded position of head of Property, responsible for both US & International business in Bermuda, effective Dec. 15.
Abend has worked as part of the property team for AXA XL Reinsurance for more than 10 years, serving in various roles including, most recently, international product lead for the Property segment and previously head of International Property for Bermuda and London. He will now manage property treaty for Bermuda working with AXA XL’s valued clients and talented underwriting team.
“Tristan has been a key part of our Property team for 10 years. As we develop our product strategies in relation to this key line of business his knowledge and experience will be vital to ensuring we service our clients effectively and ensure our long-term sustainability in the market,” commented Mark Twite, chief executive officer, Bermuda, Reinsurance.
Gallagher Re Names Senior Leaders for Netherlands
Gallagher Re, the global reinsurance broker, announced the appointments of Bob Reichenfeld as managing director of the Netherlands, and Jord Westerloo as divisional director, with effect from Jan. 2, 2023.
As head of the Dutch office, Reichenfeld will succeed Chairman Gerrit Van Emst who is preparing to retire during the first half of 2023.
Reichenfeld brings a wealth of market knowledge and extensive reinsurance leadership experience to Gallagher Re from both the broking and carrier perspective, having first been MD of Reinsurance at Delta Lloyd in 2000 before moving into broking and taking the helm at various specialist reinsurance intermediaries in the Netherlands.
Westerloo joins from Amwins Re and brings in-depth reinsurance broking experience and specialist knowledge of the Dutch insurance and reinsurance market, having previously worked as a reinsurance broker for Aon.
“We are delighted to be strengthening our talented team in the Netherlands with the insight and experience that Bob and Jord will bring to colleagues and clients alike. In Bob we have found the ideal successor to Gerrit, who will begin enjoying his well-deserved retirement during the first half of 2023 while ensuring a smooth leadership transition,” commented Maya Popovic, managing director at Gallagher Re.
“It’s clear the current mix of market pressures has created a challenging trading
Dirk Spenner, managing director, head of EMEA North & East at Gallagher Re, added: “As an important European market with significant potential to enlarge our footprint, we have ambitious growth plans in the Netherlands for both our business and our people. By investing in local talent and market expertise, we will grow together with our clients.”

Topics
Leadership
Property
Casualty
A.J. Gallagher
AXA XL
