Rokstone, the London-based speciality re/insurance managing general agent, part of Aventum Group, announced a binder agreement with Munich Re Syndicate Ltd. (MRSL), to bolster the expansion of its international property risks portfolio.
The binder has a line size of US$2 million and enables Rokstone to underwrite property risks across a number of international territories, including Australia and Canada, the company said, noting that MRSL joins a panel of long-standing carrier capacity supporters.
“We are delighted to welcome Munich Re Syndicate to our capacity panel, and we eagerly anticipate a mutually beneficial and enduring relationship. Independent, unhindered by debt, with a consistent market beating performance, Rokstone has successfully attracted some of the world’s best underwriting talent,” commented James Potter, CEO of Rokstone. “We’ve seen incredible growth as a result, whilst maintaining top quartile loss ratios. This latest partnership marks a significant milestone for Rokstone, underscoring our commitment to deliver excellence in the dynamic landscape of international property risks.”
Dominick Hoare, group chief underwriting officer of Munich Re Specialty Group said: “We have a strong and determined appetite to expand our offering in the international binder market. Led by Group Head Martyn Dolan, our experienced delegated property team will be steadfastly working to attract and serve customers and partners across a number of countries.”
With offices in the UK, Europe, USA, Asia, Africa and the Middle East, Rokstone serves the needs of international re/insurance brokers in the specialty lines business. It currently underwrites more than US$1 billion GWP in several specialty lines including property, power generation, marine, aviation, warranty, credit & surety treaty, agriculture, construction & engineering, A&H and liability.
Source: Rokstone

Topics
Property
