Global brokerage business, Brokerslink, has added Consejeros y Corredores de Seguros (CONSEJEROS), a leading broker in Peru, to its growing network.
Founded over 34 years ago, CONSEJEROS is a highly respected broker with a strong track record in providing comprehensive risk management and insurance solutions to a wide range of clients. With its main offices in Lima and Arequipa, the company maintains a national presence through offices and representations across Peru.
CONSEJEROS specializes in various industrial, commercial, and personal lines, as well as in the sale of insurance through mass channels (financial institutions, utility companies, retail stores, vehicle dealers, etc.), using in-house technology. It is the main broker owned by Peruvian stockholders, the largest broker outside of Lima, and the most important in mass sales of insurance in the local market.
“We are delighted to join Brokerslink’s global network of partners and affiliates. CONSEJEROS is recognized for its unwavering commitment to providing excellence and personalized service,” commented Juan Ignacio Bustamante, CEO and founder of CONSEJEROS. “We are sure that we will see new growth opportunities with Brokerslink, as well as bringing already developed business and technology to the network.”
“CONSEJEROS has a strong presence in the Peruvian market, which will help strengthen Brokerslink’s experience and reach in the South American region. CONSEJEROS will be a great addition, bringing a wide range of new insurance solutions and local expertise to our network,” according to Carla Alves, director of Network Operations and Engagement at Brokerslink.
About Brokerslink
Zug, Switzerland-based Brokerslink is a global broking company that owns and manages a worldwide insurance broking network. It provides its independent partners (shareholders in the company) and affiliates (businesses which have the option to become shareholders) in over 133 countries with professional, innovative risk management, technological and insurance expertise, international market connections, and world-class consulting services.
Brokerslink and its shareholders own and manage a network of independent brokers and risk consultancies comprising about 45,000 professionals.

Topics
Agencies
