Intersys, the UK-based provider of cyber risk management solutions, announced its expansion in the UK insurance market with the opening of an office in Leadenhall Market in London.
Intersys’ London office will serve as a hub for delivering cutting-edge cyber managed services tailored to the unique needs of the UK insurance sector, developing and delivering customized solutions that address the evolving cyber threat landscape, Intersys said.
To highlight this threat landscape, Intersys said, the UK Government’s 2024 Cyber Security Breaches Survey highlights that half of UK businesses experienced a cyber attack or breach in the past year, with phishing being the most common attack type, affecting 84% of businesses.
By contrast, Intersys said its clients are 10 times less likely to suffer a cyber attack than the national average. This significant advantage highlights the effectiveness of Intersys’ approach in providing marginal gains and substantial protective measures in an increasingly risky digital landscape.
Based in Woodford Green, Essex, England, Intersys has nearly three decades of experience in the insurance industry. The company’s leadership team includes experienced insurance and technology experts who work with leading insurance businesses to provide IT infrastructure, security, outsourced solutions and cloud infrastructure design and support for critical firms within the market. This includes support for placing platforms, underwriting, claims management and exposure management systems. The company also provide outsourced IT for fintech firms that are critical suppliers to large insurers.
“Insurers understand risk better than most, yet they themselves are prime targets for cyber attacks,” said Matthew Geyman, managing director at Intersys. “The alarming statistic that 50% of UK businesses have suffered breaches underscores the urgent need for proactive risk management in the cyber domain. Intersys’ proven track record in significantly reducing cyber breaches for our clients demonstrates the effectiveness of our approach. We’re not just another tech company; we’re a trusted partner with a deep understanding of the insurance industry’s unique challenges.”
Source: Intersys
Photograph: A general view of the skyline of the financial district, is seen by the River Thames, in London, on Friday, Nov. 4, 2022. (AP Photo/Kin Cheung)

Topics
Trends
New Markets
Market
London
