Miller, the London-based independent specialist re/insurance broker, announced the strategic re-alignment of its business into two divisions, Miller UK and Miller International, as the firm continues to build out its presence both in the UK and internationally.
Miller International will oversee all activity across Miller’s international offices, while Miller UK will focus on the business’ London Market offering and continued expansion in the UK.
In particular, establishing Miller international will support the business’ ambitious plans for continued international expansion, enabling greater focus on this aspect of its strategy.
In line with these changes, the following have taken on new roles in the business:
“Our ambition is for Miller to be the scale international partner of choice across both our direct and wholesale offerings. Our leading London market capabilities will always be core, but we also aim to invest significantly in our international capabilities as we look to continually meet, and anticipate, the needs of our global client base,” commented Miller CEO James Hands.
“This is an exciting time for Miller as we look to expand across the UK, Europe and Asia; we have already seen strong international growth both through organic activity and strategic M&A, such as the acquisition of Henner Sports in France (now Miller Sports & Entertainment, Paris) and Japanese Broker Lead Insurance Services,” Hands added.
“This new structure will further empower us to deliver on our international strategy. At the same time, and most importantly, we will always retain our ‘One Miller’ approach, acting as a single global team of empowered experts to deliver for our clients, wherever they are.”
Miller UK came into effect last July and Miller International launched at the beginning of 2023.