This edition of International People Moves details appointments at SCOR UK and SCOR Syndicate as well as QBE.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
SCOR UK Promotes Mummé-Young to CUO
SCOR announced the appointment of Henry Mummé-Young as chief underwriting officer, SCOR UK, and active underwriter for SCOR Syndicate 2015, subject to regulatory approval.
Mummé-Young will report to Chris Beazley, CEO of SCOR UK & SCOR Syndicate. He replaces Marie Biggas, who has been promoted to the role of CUO SCOR Business Solutions & FAC.
Mummé-Young joined SCOR in 2014 as a senior underwriter within Political & Credit Risks as part of SCOR Syndicate 2015 (then called Channel Syndicate 2015). In 2021 he was appointed global line head for political & credit risks across both syndicate and company markets. Prior to joining SCOR, Mummé-Young worked at both ACE and Liberty in an underwriting capacity.
Mummé-Young is a chartered insurer of the Chartered Insurance Institute. He has both a Master of Science degree in Philosophy, Politics and Economics from the University of London, and a Bachelor of Arts degree in Ancient, Medieval & Modern History from the University of Durham.
In his role, Mummé-Young will oversee the underwriting strategy and performance of SCOR UK’s operations and Lloyd’s syndicate capabilities.
“I am very happy to see Henry take on this important role for SCOR UK and the syndicate. As someone who has worked across both, he is an ideal candidate to continue the development and growth journey of the two platforms,” commented Claire McDonald, CEO of SCOR Business Solutions. “I look forward to working with him in his new role. I would also like to thank Marie Biggas for her valuable leadership in this role over the last 2.5 years, and for covering the interim since her appointment to global CUO for SCOR Business Solutions and Fac.”
SCOR Syndicate 2015 is principally a direct, specialty insurance business that underwrites property and specialty classes including renewable energy, cyber, fine art, environmental impairment liability, terrorism & political violence, political & credit risks, and legal solutions. The SCOR Syndicate is 100% backed by SCOR and fully integrated with SCOR Business Solutions, the large corporate risks insurance arm of SCOR.
QBE Taps Allianz’s Marega for New Role of European Product Mgr, Professional indemnity
Commercial insurer QBE has appointed Andrea Marega to the newly created role of European product manager for professional indemnity, as part of changes to its underwriting operating model.
Marega joins from Allianz Commercial where he was senior global financial lines underwriter in Munich, Germany. He moved back to Milan, Italy, to take up his new role from Jan. 20.
He started his insurance career with AIG as a financial lines underwriter in 2000 in Milan. In 2002, he joined ACE (now Chubb) as financial lines manager for Italy and later for Southern Europe before becoming professional indemnity (PI) manager for EMEA. In 2019, he joined Allianz Commercial’s chief underwriting office.
In his new position, Marega will help shape and develop QBE’s European PI portfolio. He will report to Naintara Agarwal, Europe director of underwriting and portfolio management.
“With Andrea on board, we are looking to further our reach in the Professional Indemnity practice across Europe. Andrea has an impressive track record in PI and his cross-country European experience will help us to enhance our service to our customers and brokers while improving QBE’s presence in this important portfolio,” commented Agarwal.

Topics
Europe
Allianz
