This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI), Marsh and MS Amlin Underwriting Ltd.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
BHSI Promotes Alder-Smurthwaite, Emson to UK Casualty Team
Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI) announced that it has promoted Caroline Alder-Smurthwaite to head of Casualty and James Emson to the role of head of Technical Casualty in the UK.
Alder-Smurthwaite, who has more than 20 years of insurance industry experience, joined BHSI in 2021 as head of General Casualty. Before that, she was London Corporate Casualty and International Casualty manager at Chubb.
In her new role, she will oversee underwriting of all technical and general casualty lines for BHSI in the UK. Alder-Smurthwaite can be reached at +44 203 692 8011 and caroline.aldersmurthwaite@bhspecialty.com
Emson joined BHSI in 2018 as senior casualty underwriter. He was previously promoted to casualty manager, Technical Casualty, in the UK before ascending to his current role of head of Technical Casualty. Emson has nearly 15 years of industry experience. He can be reached at +44 203 429 4929 and james.emson@bhspecialty.com.
Marsh Names Faull as Head of Climate and Sustainability Risk
Insurance broker Marsh announced the appointment of Nick Faull as head of Climate and Sustainability Risk, effective April 1, 2022. Based in London, Faull will report to Amy Barnes, head of Climate and Sustainability Strategy, Marsh.
In this role, Faull will help to develop Marsh’s global sustainability and climate services – including risk modeling and management – to support clients as they transition towards net zero carbon emissions. Faull will also work closely with Barnes and Ryan Bond, head of Climate and Sustainability Insurance Innovation, to develop new services and solutions that will address emerging risks around the environment and the circular economy.
Faull joined Marsh in 2017. Most recently he was head of Strategic Risk Consulting for UK & Ireland. Before joining Marsh, he was a principal at Oliver Wyman for nine years, consulting to financial services firms on a range of risk-related issues. Prior to this as part of his post-doctoral research, Faull was the project coordinator for climateprediction.net, a major climate modelling experiment created by the University of Oxford.
“Robust risk management has a critical role to play in increasing organisational resilience to climate-related risks, while supporting the transition to a more sustainable future and realising net zero ambitions. Nick has dedicated his career to advancing organisational understanding of sustainability and climate risk and brings a wealth of experience to the team that will be of great benefit to our clients,” commented Barnes.
“Increasing their overall resilience to the risks associated with climate change, while meeting their obligations around sustainability, should be a key strategic priority for organisations as we move towards net zero and a nature-positive world,” said Faull.
MS Amlin Bolsters Risk Team With 4 Senior Appointments
MS Amlin Underwriting Ltd. (MS AUL), the Lloyd’s global specialty re/insurer, announced the appointments of John Winder, Victoria Harding, Wendy Kriz, and Maurice Rose to its growing risk function led by Chief Risk Officer Vishal Desai.
Winder joins as senior manager of the Insurance Risk pillar. He has more than 20 years’ experience as an underwriter and senior risk manager with substantial London market and reinsurance expertise. He joins MS AUL from Hiscox where he was senior risk manager, according to his LinkedIn profile. He also had risk management roles at AXA XL and Liberty Syndicates.
Harding will shortly begin her role as the head of Enterprise Risk Management (ERM). She brings more than 10 years of risk management experience and was most recently at CNA Hardy, where she spent six years conducting strategic risk reviews, overseeing all aspects of the risk management framework and ORSA process. Prior to this, she held various risk management and operational roles at XL Catlin and Allianz UK, implementing risk and operational improvement programs.
Kriz joins as senior manager of the function’s Validation and Risk Intelligence pillar. She has two decades of actuarial experience across reserving, capital and validation work. Her experience spans consultancy and multiple in-house roles at firms including Barnett Waddingham, WTW, Aviva, RSA, Catlin, Ace, and Lloyd’s. She has a deep interest in sustainability and is an active member of the Institute and Faculties of Actuaries (IFoA) Sustainability Board.
Rose joins as senior manager of the ERM pillar. He is an experienced insurance practitioner with over 10 years’ experience and joins from PwC where he was a senior manager in its risk and regulatory insurance practice. Prior to PwC, he worked at both the UK Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA), Lloyd’s, Torus and AIG. Rose is an advocate for diversity and inclusion (D&I) in the insurance industry and chairs Link, the cross-insurance industry LGBTQ+ network.
“As we expand the remit of our risk function offering in 2022 towards best-in-class, I am delighted to welcome John, Victoria, Wendy, and Maurice to the team. Their extensive and collective underwriting, actuarial and broader risk expertise will strengthen and contribute to the delivery of our strategic ambition,” commented Desai.
“Investment in this top-tier talent reflects the value the business has come to place in the risk function as a trusted source of insight, challenge and as a key partner to all material decision making,” he added.

Topics
Excess Surplus
Underwriting
Market
London
Casualty
Mississippi
