This edition of International People Moves details appointments at the broker Ardonagh and QBE Europe.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Ardonagh Group Announces Senior Management and Structural Shakeup
The Ardonagh Group, the London-based independent insurance distribution platform, announced a senior management shakeup for 2024.
Conor Brennan will assume the new role of executive chairman of Ardonagh International, bringing entities previously part of Ardonagh Europe and Ardonagh Global Partners into one platform supported by one leadership team. He previously led Ardonagh Europe and was CEO of Arachas Corporate Brokers.
Conor will be joined by Des O’Connor, previously CEO Ardonagh Global Partners, in the new role of chief investment officer international. They will be supported by John McCarthy as CFO International, who has transitioned his Arachas CFO responsibilities to Martin Mohan.
In Ireland, Joey Wynne, currently deputy CEO of Arachas, will step into the Arachas CEO role in line with a longstanding succession plan (subject to regulatory approval).
Antony Erotocritou will take on the role of group chief commercial officer, working with Chief Executive David Ross, CFO Diane Cougill and CIO Aurelio Cusaro, on corporate and financial transactions.
Andrew Wallin, previously group head of M&A, has been appointed CEO of Specialty Broking (subject to regulatory approval).
The Ardonagh Group describes itself as a collection of best-in-class entrepreneurial and specialist brands with a combined workforce of over 10,000 colleagues and a network spanning 200-plus locations in more than 30 countries.
QBE Promotes Purkis in Continental Europe Distribution Team
QBE Europe has appointed James Purkis to market management executive to help drive the distribution strategy across Continental Europe.
Currently distribution manager for the London market, Purkis will start his new role on Jan. 1, 2024, supporting head of Distribution for Continental Europe Fabian Desch.
Purkis has 35 years’ experience in insurance, including 15 years underwriting at Aviva and 12 years in corporate placement at Marsh. He joined the QBE Client team in 2015, before moving on to Distribution where he led teams in the South of England and most recently the London market.
Reporting to Desch, Purkis will help develop a distribution strategy connecting Continental European countries through strategic plans. He will also drive greater visibility for QBE in local markets through targeted broker and client engagement.
Purkis, who will start his new role from London, will be based in Madrid from April 2024.
“QBE has grown a lot in Europe recently, with new offices and new products, and we have further ambitions for 2024. I’m very happy to have James onboard to help deliver consistent value and great service to our brokers and customers,” said Desch, QBE’s head of Distribution for Continental Europe.

Topics
Europe
