This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Howden Broking, Aon and Everest Re.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Howden Hires 3 for Casualty Team in London, Bermuda
Howden, the international insurance broker, announced the appointment of three hires in London and Bermuda. All three joined in May 2023 and are part of a wider strategy to meet increased client demand for specialist casualty solutions in these respective markets.
In London, Chris Harris joins Howden’s growing US Liability team as a divisional director. He brings a wealth of experience cultivated over 30 years in the market in both broking and underwriting roles. Harris joins Howden from Marsh where he has been for the past three years. His expertise spans across primary, umbrella and excess placements, focusing on designing creative risk transfer solutions for complex risks across multiple classes.
The International Liability team welcomed Fiona Woodcock as an associate director. Woodcock joins with over 10 years of experience in the industry, and most recently held the role of International D&F Account Handler at BMS. She specializes in direct insurance and facultative reinsurance business for both large and SME clients, on a global scale.
Howden Specialty has bolstered its casualty expertise in its Bermuda hub with the appointment of property and casualty specialist Andrew Halls. Halls brings with him over 15 years market experience in both broking and underwriting in London and Bermuda, specialising in placing property and casualty programmes for clients in pharmaceuticals, mining, oil and gas, real estate, sports teams, waste, utilities, rail, chemical, food, and manufacturing sectors. He joins Howden from Price Forbes where he held the position of vice president, Property/Casualty, and part of his role will focus on growing property and casualty business within the region.
“Both London and Bermuda have experienced significant growth thanks to an expansive market. With the Casualty division’s ongoing success in collaborating with new producers in crucial global territories, these new hires will provide the additional leadership, experience and specialist industry knowledge required to complement a growing team and service to a rapidly expanding client base,” commented Mark Colgate, managing director, Casualty.
Aon Names Fakkel as CTO, Strategy and Technology Group
Insurance broker Aon plc named Marc Fakkel as chief technology officer of its Strategy and Technology Group (STG).
In his new role, Fakkel will report to Sherif Zakhary, chief executive officer of STG, helping to drive the development of innovative products and services that are aligned to evolving client needs. Based in London, he will also join the interim STG senior leadership team.
Fakkel will work closely with STG technology chair, Alun Marriott, and STG chief information officer, Craig Hawthorne, to support initiatives that encourage collaboration between sales and development.
Fakkel joins Aon from Deloitte, where he was the Actuarial Modelling Centre Partner, which included responsibilities to deliver actuarial modelling across multiple geographies.
Everest Re Names AIG’s Gallagher as Head of U.S. Facultative
Everest Reinsurance, the reinsurance division of Everest Re Group Ltd., announced that Trevor Gallagher has joined the Company as Head of U.S. Facultative, reporting to Anthony Izzo, global head of Reinsurance Distribution and Facultative.
Gallagher will lead Everest’s expanding U.S. Facultative business, focused on delivering superior service, cultivating best-in-class talent, and broadening Everest’s portfolio, with dedicated service to the U.S. Facultative and Hybrid market. The company’s Canada Facultative business is led by Tom Butler.
With more than 25 years of casualty insurance leadership expertise, Gallagher is known for his breadth of business relationships and innate ability to provide superior client service. He joins Everest from AIG where he was most recently executive vice president of National Accounts, responsible for managing the specialty portfolio and AIG Risk Management business strategy as well as driving profitable underwriting results.
While at AIG, Gallagher also led the Major Accounts Primary Casualty business as well as the Transportation Division. He started his career in underwriting at Reliance Insurance Co. and has a degree in business administration from Farleigh Dickinson University.
“Trevor is an outstanding addition to our leadership team in North America. He is an accomplished industry executive, strategic problem solver, and trusted partner to a deep network of clients and brokers,” said Anthony Izzo, global head of Reinsurance Distribution and Facultative.

Topics
USA
InsurTech
Tech
Aon
London
Casualty
A.J. Gallagher
AIG
