This edition of International People Moves details appointments at AXA XL, Liberty Specialty Markets (LSM) and MS Amlin.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
AXA XL Promotes Coxall to Head of Underwriting Mgmt, UK & Lloyd’s
AXA XL announced that Stephanie Coxall has been promoted to head of Underwriting Management, UK & Lloyd’s, effective Jan. 16.
In her new role, Coxall will be responsible for supporting AXA XL’s chief underwriting officer (CUO), UK & Lloyd’s, in executing the regional underwriting strategy and ensuring continued profitability.
“Stephanie has extensive industry experience and has spent 10 years working for AXA XL and its previous iterations. Her knowledge and understanding of the business will be a great asset to the UK & Lloyd’s business unit as we work to deliver our goals. I’m delighted to welcome Stephanie to her new role,” commented Luis Prato, CUO, UK & Lloyd’s.
Coxall began her career with NFU Mutual before joining the business (then Catlin) in 2012, where she progressed through several underwriting positions. Most recently, she held a global learning & development role, responsible for leading the AXA XL Academies for Underwriting, Claims and Reinsurance.
LSM Hires BNP’s Faulkner to Lead Digital Strategy, Continental Europe
Liberty Specialty Markets (LSM), part of Liberty Mutual Insurance Group, announced the appointment of Carl Faulkner to the newly created role of head of Digital Strategy for Continental Europe. Faulkner reports to Kadidja Sinz, head of LSM Europe, and Parul Kaul-Green, chief digital strategy officer, LSM. He is based in Paris and takes up the role with immediate effect.
The role is part of LSM’s recently established Digital Strategy function, which leads the global digital strategy for distribution, underwriting and digital products. Faulkner is responsible for driving digital strategy for underwriting in Europe in line with LSM’s long-term roadmap to deliver digital evolution across global markets. Faulkner will be working to ensure LSM is serving its brokers and partners with outstanding digital customer journeys and solutions.
Faulkner joins LSM from BNP Paribas where he was head of Digital for five years. During his career there, he held the roles of Distribution and Transformation director in Japan and head of Global Insurance E-Business in Paris. He has significant experience in the European insurance market, having led Chubb’s E-Commerce sales and distribution across 20 EMEA countries.
“We are thrilled to bring Carl on board to drive our digital strategy. His extensive experience in European markets will help to support LSM’s position as a digital market leader. We look forward to working together to continue servicing our brokers and partners with innovative technology solutions.” said Sinz.
MS Amlin Strengthens Underwriting Leadership
MS Amlin, the Lloyd’s global re/insurer, announced changes to its senior underwriting leadership team that streamlines reporting and increases efficiency within the division. This follows Andrew Carrier’s transition from chief underwriting officer to chief executive officer on Jan. 1, 2023, subject to regulatory approval.
Grant Baxter, who joined the business at the end of December 2022 as head of Reinsurance, also becomes interim CUO, effective on Jan. 1, 2023, subject to regulatory approval, in addition to his reinsurance responsibilities. He joins MS Amlin’s Executive Committee and will report to Carrier.
Neil Walker, currently head of Underwriting Transformation, becomes co-deputy CUO and head of Specialty Insurance. Walker assumes responsibility for marine, casualty, natural resources, and crisis management insurance lines.
Sam Geddes, currently head of Property and Allied Lines, will also become co-deputy CUO, alongside his existing responsibilities for Property and Auto insurance product lines. Both Walker and Geddes will report to Baxter.

Topics
Excess Surplus
Europe
Lloyd's
Mississippi
AXA XL
