This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Marsh, SCOR, and Chubb Global Markets,
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Marsh Names Adamantiadis as CEO, Continental Europe
Marsh, the insurance broker and risk adviser, announced the appointment of Christos Adamantiadis as CEO, Continental Europe, effective Jan. 1, 2023. Adamantiadis will be based in Zurich and report to Flavio Piccolomini, president of Marsh’s International Division.
In this role, Adamantiadis will oversee the management and development of Marsh’s risk advisory and insurance broking operations across Continental Europe. Adamantiadis succeeds Siegmund Fahrig, who will retire from the business at the end of this year.
Adamantiadis joined Marsh in 2018 and is currently CEO of Marsh’s Middle East and Africa region. Prior to joining Marsh, he was chief executive of UAE-based Oman Insurance Co. for three years. Adamantiadis also spent 20 years at AIG in various management roles, including overseeing its operations in Central and Eastern Europe, Russia, Turkey, the Middle East, and North Africa.
“Christos is a highly experienced leader who excels in developing teams, services, and solutions across multiple geographies that benefit our clients and deliver growth. Under his leadership, our Continental Europe region will be well-placed to support clients in this rapidly changing and often volatile risk landscape. On behalf of Marsh, I would like to thank Siegi for his service and extend our best wishes as he embarks on this next chapter in his life,” commented Piccolomini.
SCOR Taps Chubb’s Bartolo as EIL Segment Lead
Reinsurer SCOR announced the appointment of Emma Bartolo as the global segment leader for its environmental impairment liability (EIL) insurance portfolio. Bartolo will join SCOR in February 2023.
Based in London, she will report to Marie Biggas, chief underwriting officer of SCOR UK and active underwriter of the SCOR Syndicate, and Daniel Carreras, global line head, Specialty & Casualty.
Bartolo joins SCOR from her most recent position as London corporate regional manager at Chubb, where she was responsible for the delivery of the middle-market strategy and financial plan in London. Prior to this, she held a number of senior positions at Chubb, including environmental risk manager for the UK & Ireland.
Bartolo began her career in insurance as an environmental risk underwriter at Chubb, Manchester/London in 2008. Bartolo is a strong advocate for diversity & inclusion, having chaired the Gender Equality Network at Chubb, as well as supporting the development and execution of its D&I strategy. Before joining the industry, she worked as a consultant at WSP Environment & Energy, and as a technical officer, Contaminated Land, at Manchester City Council. She has written a number of industry publications on environmental insurance and is considered a leader in her field.
Bartolo holds a Master of Science degree in Pollution and Environmental Control and a Bachelor of Science degree in Geology and Geography from the University of Manchester.
Chubb Global Markets Promotes Driscoll as Head of Financial Lines
Chubb announced the appointment of Steve Driscoll as head of Financial Lines for Chubb Global Markets (CGM), the company’s London Market wholesale and specialty business including its Lloyd’s platform.
In this newly created role, Driscoll will be responsible for all aspects of CGM’s Financial Lines business across all sub-classes, including strategy, product and business development, underwriting and service operations, and overall profit and loss performance. His remit includes CGM’s practices for professional indemnity, medical malpractice, management liability, financial institutions and cyber.
Driscoll will be based in London and report to Robert Wilson, Chief Underwriting Officer for CGM. The appointment is effective immediately.
In his previous role as head of Professional Indemnity for CGM, Driscoll led a team which comprised its once separate U.S. and non-U.S. sides after the two groups merged in 2020. Prior to that he was Product Head Professional Lines (non-U.S.) for CGM from 2007.
“I am delighted that we have been able to promote Steve to this important role within CGM as he is ideally qualified to oversee the continued development of our broader Financial Lines business. Our PI business has benefited hugely from Steve’s oustanding leadership over many years, and I am looking forward to him achieving the same success in this broader role,” commented Wilson.
“This move, in addition to the recent appointment of Alex Jackson as product head of Management Liability, completes the restructuring of the Financial Lines team for Global Markets and makes us perfectly placed to best serve our Financial Lines clients and broker partners,” he added.

Topics
Liability
Europe
Chubb
