Allianz Commercial and Rokstone, the Aventum Group’s international re/insurance MGA, announced a collaboration for a US$10 million facility to write marine cargo business worldwide with immediate effect.
This broadens Allianz’s wholesale marine distribution and allows Rokstone to write direct and reinsurance cargo business with full binding authority globally from London. This new facility complements Rokstone’s existing US$25 million facility launched earlier this year with Allianz for its North American marine operations.
“This new facility is for both direct and reinsurance and means we can write direct European business with full binding authority for the first time, broadening our geographical distribution. We’re delighted to be extending our relationship with Allianz with this new facility,” commented Rob Birchard, marine portfolio manager at Rokstone.
“Rokstone has an enviable record that has resulted in long term collaborations with our carriers and a 100% retention rate. Brokers know that they will get access to the best capacity and a fast service from Rokstone,” Birchard added.
“We are pleased to extend our agreement with Rokstone to additional marine lines and territories. It demonstrates Allianz Commercial’s commitment to specialty business and the strategic focus on marine for our business,” according to Phil Graham, head of Marine, Allianz Commercial UK.
“Rokstone’s technology, expert underwriting and commitment to broker service will help us continue to expand the reach of our high-quality products and solutions for our clients worldwide,” Graham added.
Rokstone is an international speciality re/insurance MGA, a subsidiary of the Aventum Group. Aventum is one of the world’s leading and fastest growing independent Specialty insurance groups, trading more than US$1.5 billion GWP annually, with 17 offices globally. Through its international re/insurance broking arm Consilium, and its global MGA operation, Rokstone, it offers clients a range of specialist and niche solutions in all lines of property/casualty re/insurance globally. Rokstone recently launched a box at Lloyd’s.
Source: Rokstone

Topics
Commercial Lines
Trucking
Allianz
