This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Marsh and Markel.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Marsh Promotes Donnelly to Global Head of Placement
Insurance broker Marsh announced the appointment of John Donnelly as global head of Placement, effective Jan. 1, 2024. Donnelly will relocate to London from Sydney and report to Pat Donnelly, president, Marsh Specialty and Global Placement.
In this role, Donnelly will have global responsibility for Marsh’s retail and wholesale broking activities. He will work closely with Marsh’s regional placement leaders to advance its global placement strategy to meet the evolving needs of clients and lead digital market engagement initiatives.
Donnelly returned to Marsh in 2013 and is head of Placement for Asia Pacific. He has over 40 years’ international experience in placement, risk, and insurance, and began his career with Marsh in 1983.
Markel Names AIG’s Conyard as Digital & Portfolio Exec in Distribution Team
Markel, the insurance operation within Markel Group Inc., has appointed Chris Conyard as Digital & Portfolio Executive in its distribution strategies and business development (DS&BD) team.
In his new position, Conyard will work closely with the underwriting and business development teams to support Markel’s long-term sustainable growth and operational effectiveness. He will also play an imperative role in helping to lead and develop Markel’s distribution strategy.
With more than 20 years of experience in the global insurance industry, Conyard joins from American International Group (AIG), where he was responsible for distribution strategy and strategic broker relationships. Prior to this Conyard spent more than a decade with Chubb, holding various senior underwriting and distribution roles across its Accident & Health (A&H) operations.
Conyard will be based at Markel’s London office and report to Dan Martin, managing director of DS&BD at Markel International.
“At Markel, distribution is at the forefront of our strategy, given the rapidly changing nature of risk, combined with the increased digitisation of the global insurance marketplace, and evolving buying habits of our customers,” commented Martin. “This role represents a step change in our approach. Chris’ diverse experience, long-standing trading relationships and considered, collegiate approach make him ideally suited to this exciting new challenge.”

Topics
AIG
