This edition of International People Moves details appointments at QBE Germany and Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI).
A summary of these new hires follows here.
QBE Germany Appoints 2 Marine U/Ws
QBE Germany has strengthened its Marine team in Hamburg with the appointments of Philip Specht as senior underwriter and Lars Habersaat as underwriter.
QBE said these appointments set the course for the expansion of its marine and art & specie product range into the German market.
Specht brings more than 25 years of experience and industry expertise to his new position. A qualified insurance specialist with a focus on cargo and marine liability, he has held various management roles during his career. He was managing director at Aon Versicherungsagentur Deutschland and head of the marine insurance division at Aon Japan Group. Most recently, he worked as a senior underwriter for transport insurance at KA Köln.Assekuranz.
Prior to joining QBE in July, Habersaat worked as a marine underwriter at R+V subsidiary Kravag-Logistic Versicherungs-AG and gained valuable industry expertise in the maritime sector as an underwriting assistant at protection & indemnity (P&I) insurer Thomas Miller Specialty in London. Habersaat studied shipping management as well as insurance law.
Together with the European team, Specht and Habersaat will establish and develop the transport and marine portfolio in Germany, according to Andrea Brock, QBE Germany’s general manager. “This will enable us to offer our customers needs-based insurance solutions in this area as well. This is an important step towards achieving our growth ambitions by 2025.”
BHSI Names Jaghbir as Underwriting Manager in Queensland
Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI) announced it has appointed Sami
as underwriting manager, Queensland, Australia.
“Sami joined BHSI in 2015 to help establish our Brisbane office. He was pivotal in building our executive and professional lines business in Queensland and more recently has led our commercial directors & officers product line in New South Wales,” said Mark Lingafelter, president of Australasia, BHSI. “I am excited to work with Sami and our Brisbane team to bring the strengths of BHSI to our customers and brokers in Queensland. Sami’s professionalism, strong working relationships and collaborative style will help BHSI further develop our market presence across all of our product lines.”
Jaghbir has more than 18 years of insurance industry experience specializing in E&P lines. In his new role he will be based in Brisbane and can be reached at Sami.Jaghbir@bhspecialty.com.
In addition to E&P lines, BHSI in Brisbane provides general property, energy, construction, mining, marine cargo, hull and marine liabilities, accident & health, medical malpractice and surety solutions.

Topics
Underwriting
Australia
Germany
