This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Lockton and MS Amlin.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Lockton Taps Swiss Re’s Wright to Lead UK Commercial Wholesale, Succeeding Lee
Insurance broker Lockton announced the appointment of Shelley Wright as head of UK Commercial Wholesale.
She will work with David Lee, the current head of UK Commercial Wholesale, to ensure a smooth transition of roles, ahead of his retirement. After 49 years of working in the insurance industry and the last 11 years at Lockton, Lee will begin to transfer his areas of responsibilities to Wright who will be focused on maintaining and building the capability and execution of strategies for clients.
Wright has 36 years of industry experience and joins from Swiss Re Corporate Solutions where she served as director of Standard Propositions EMEA and previously as head of UK Regional Business. Prior to this, she worked at Lorega Ltd. as director of Innovation and New Products and held various roles at Groupama, most recently as customer proposition manager. Wright also worked for GAN Minster, Fortis Insurance Ltd. and Catterall Insurance Services.
Under Lee’s tenure, Lockton UK’s Commercial Wholesale has grown rapidly, and, over the last three years alone, the business unit has grown its revenue by an average of 35% year on year, Lockton said.
“The Commercial Wholesale team has been growing rapidly over the last few years. We have built a business that produces just short of £3 million brokerage income per annum and one that places around £34 million of premium per annum into the market. As the business unit grows and embraces a period of transition, our aim of providing clients with top quality service remains at the core. Shelley’s extensive experience makes her the ideal candidate to build on this momentum,” commented Tony Hardy, head of Lockton P&C.
As the world’s largest independent insurance brokerage firm, Lockton employs more than 9,500 associates who provide 65,000 clients globally with in risk management, insurance and employee benefits consulting solutions.
MS Amlin Names Ross From Sedgwick as Product Recall Senior U/W
MS Amlin, the Lloyd’s global re/insurer, announced the appointment of Julie Ross as product recall senior underwriter. She will join the business in September and report to Neil Walker, co-deputy CUO and head of Specialty Insurance.
Ross will be responsible for overseeing the team and supporting our clients in navigating the evolving reputational, regulatory, and operational risks associated with product recall and contamination incidents.
With more than two decades of experience on both the underwriting and broking side, Ross brings vast industry knowledge and leadership to the role. Having specialised in product recall and crisis management for much of her career, Julie possesses robust expertise in the sector. She has a proven track record for building out services and managing international teams to effectively handle highly complex accounts.
Ross joins MS Amlin from Sedgwick International, where she was the international business development director for Brand Protection Services. In this role, she was in charge of sourcing new business opportunities, maintaining client relationships, as well as providing subject matter expertise for brand protection across Sedgwick’s 65 international offices. Ross started her career as an underwriter at American Insurance Group (AIG), quickly progressing to senior roles at Marsh, and Liberty Insurance.
“In a world where managing the impact of crises is increasingly topical and important, and providing support to our clients is central to our purpose, Julie’s arrival comes at a timely juncture. With recognised and respected expertise in crisis management and product recall on an international scale, Julie’s deep insight will prove invaluable as we continue to scale and enhance the capabilities we can provide for our clients,” commented Neil Walker, co-deputy CUO and head of Specialty Insurance MS Amlin.
MS Amlin Underwriting Ltd., a global re/insurer, is part of the global top-10 insurance group MS&AD, with operations in the Lloyd’s, UK, Middle East and Asia markets.

Topics
Commercial Lines
Mississippi
Swiss Re
