This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Everest Insurance and two brokers BMS and Miller.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Everest Insurance Taps Chubb’s Chaves to Lead Mexico Operations
Everest Insurance, the insurance division of Bermuda-based Everest Re Group Ltd., announced that Jaime Chaves has joined the company to lead its insurance operations in Mexico, pending regulatory approval.
He is based in Mexico City, and will report to Pablo Korze, Regional President Latin America, Everest Insurance.
Chaves brings more than 25 years of industry experience and extensive knowledge of the Latin America insurance and reinsurance markets. He will be responsible for leading the company’s expansion into Mexico, including managing the strategy and operations, developing new client and business relationships, and identifying growth opportunities throughout Mexico.
Most recently, Chaves served as the head of Property & Casualty for Chubb Mexico, where he successfully developed the P&C Operation that included property, casualty, marine and financial lines across all segments of the business.
Prior to that, he held a variety of leadership roles with increasing responsibility at Chubb Colombia, Odyssey Reinsurance Latin America and the Caribbean, Swiss Re Mexico and Swiss Re Colombia. Chaves holds a Master of Business Administration from INALDE in Colombia, as well as a Bachelor of Science in Economics and a Master of Finance degree, both from Universidad de los Andes in Colombia.
“Jaime comes to us with deep market experience, long-standing, trusted relationships and a proven track record of fostering diverse, high-performing teams. He is the ideal leader to help us bring Everest’s value proposition to Mexico and deliver solutions to bridge unmet needs in this important region as we continue our strategic growth throughout Latin America,” said Korze.
BMS Names Munich Re’s Tigleanu as Divisional Dir., Cyber Strategy
BMS, the London-based independent specialist insurance and reinsurance broker, announced the appointment of Monica Tigleanu as divisional director, cyber strategy. Following regulatory approval, Tigleanu will be based in Bermuda and will report to Adam Mullan, executive chairman of BMS Re Bermuda, with a dotted line to Chris Madell, managing director of financial and professional lines at BMS.
In her role, Tigleanu’s primary focus will be to future-proof BMS’ cyber strategy by developing innovative products tailored for the ever-evolving cyber risk landscape. She will leverage her global network to bring together new capacity from various insurance hubs and spearhead the creation of distinctive facilities offering coverage currently unavailable in the market.
Tigleanu has extensive knowledge of the cyber insurance market, having worked within the sector for more than 10 years as both an underwriter and broker. Tigleanu joins BMS from her most recent role as a senior cyber underwriter at Munich Re. Prior to this, she worked as a cyber property damage leader at Marsh. Tigleanu has also held senior positions at companies such as Beazley, AIG and Travelers and she sits on Relay’s board of advisers.
She began her insurance career as a key contributor to financial lines underwriting, including cyber, directors and officers, and financial institutions errors and omissions and crime. Since then, she has focused on analysing a variety of cyber exposures across industry sectors and on providing bespoke risk management solutions.
“Monica’s track record is nothing short of impressive. Her knowledge of the market combined with her innate ability to effectively help clients understand cyber risk will be a major asset to BMS. Her expertise complements our broader risk advisory capabilities, enabling us to continue helping our clients with their risk management goals,” Mullan said.
Miller Hires Dipati as Risk Engineer in Singapore Energy Team
Miller, the London-based independent specialist re/insurance broker, announced the appointment of Bonifasius Dipati (Boni) as a risk engineer in its Singapore Energy team. Boni will report to Matt Hooker, head of Energy (Asia-Pacific), and he joins on April 3.
Dipati entered the insurance market in 2020 having previously spent over 10 years within the energy sector. Prior to joining Miller, Dipati spent three years as a risk consultant specialist at FM Global. Previously, Dipati has worked at Elliot Ebara and Industrial Power Technology as a turbine engineer.
He will support Miller’s clients with risk management advice, complex claims support and will act as a technical interface between clients and the insurance market’s own risk engineering teams. Dipati will be focused on helping Miller grow its Power business within its wider Energy portfolio.

Topics
Cyber
Mexico
Chubb
