Ardonagh Advisory, the London-based SME broking platform and part of Ardonagh Group, has completed its acquisition of Westfield Brokers Ltd.
Financial details of the deal, which was first announced in December 2023, were not disclosed.
Westfield Brokers, which trades under the name of Westfield Insurance, is an independent commercial broker based in Horsham, West Sussex, offering a diverse range of general insurance products, including, fleet, liability and contractors.
The business was established in 2009 by Managing Director Peter Cowan, who used his longstanding insurance industry experience to build a business focused on client service, Ardonagh Advisory said in a statement.
Cowan will continue to lead the business, which will join the Ardonagh Advisory platform, complementing Ardonagh’s existing presence in the West Sussex region.
“Westfield Insurance is a dynamic and customer focused company, which is driven by an ethos of honesty and integrity,” according to Richard Tuplin, CEO Advisory Insurance Broking Ltd., a subsidiary of Ardonagh Advisory.
“As culturally aligned businesses, we know that Westfield Insurance will benefit from the many resources and opportunities available within Ardonagh Advisory, helping them to deliver even more for customers,” he added.
“When looking for a new home for Westfield Insurance, it was hugely important that we found a business that would support us to serve our clients in the best way possible,” commented Cowan. “Ardonagh Advisory has so much to offer by way of operational support, which means we will be able to honour our client centric approach.”
Ardonagh Advisory Broking Holdings Ltd is The Ardonagh Group’s SME broking platform comprising Bravo Networks, Footman James, Hera Indemnity, Lorega, Towergate, Towergate Health & Protection, Thompson & Bryan and Usay Compare brands.
Source: Ardonagh Advisory

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
