AXA XL said Renaud Guidée has been appointed as chief executive officer, Reinsurance, effective September 1.
Guidée assumes the role from Nancy Bewlay, who has been appointed group chief underwriting officer. In this newly created role, Bewlay joins AXA’s Management Committee reporting to Frédéric De Courtois, group deputy CEO.
Guidée, currently serving as AXA Group’s chief risk officer, will lead AXA XL’s reinsurance business, offering solutions that include property, casualty, and specialty reinsurance.
“Over the past year we have worked to reposition our reinsurance portfolio and we are seeing the benefits of this work in our discussions with clients and brokers,” said Scott Gunter, AXA XL’s CEO. “I want to take this opportunity to warmly thank Nancy for her leadership of the reinsurance business and congratulate her on her new role at AXA Group.”
Guidée was appointed AXA Group’s chief risk officer in 2019. Prior to joining AXA, he was a managing director with Goldman Sachs’ Investment Banking Division, where he advised large corporate clients across industries with a total cross-border transaction track record of over $150bn.
McGill and Partners Grows Presence in Bermuda
McGill and Partners expanded its team in Bermuda and announced that Peter Stubbings has joined the team as a partner where he will focus on reinsurance. Stubbings joins from Aon where he was CEO of Global ReSpecialty. Prior to this he was chairman of Guy Carpenter in Bermuda and returns to the island with an extensive contact base and expertise.
McGill and Partners’ Bermudan operations have a global remit, working closely with the rest of the firm’s offices across the world on both insurance and reinsurance contracts. The specialist reinsurance broker said the expansion of its team on the island will enhance its ability to provide its local and global clients with a best-in-class service and global market access.
“For us as a broker, direct access to the Bermudan market helps facilitate mutual success across all our offices and compound the firm’s significant growth,” said Kate Vacher, partner and CEO of McGill and Partners Bermuda. “We are excited to see the hub grow over the next few years, and we have big ambitions to bring both new premiums to Bermuda, as well as employing local Bermudan talent.”

Topics
Reinsurance
AXA XL
