This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Aon, Miller and Mt. Logan Re.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Aon Names WTW’s Kennedy as UK Client Industry Sector Leader
Insurance broker Aon plc has named David Kennedy as Client Industry Sectors leader for the UK. He will join the firm on April 11, 2022, and will report to Jane Kielty, UK chief commercial officer.
Kennedy brings more than 20 years of experience in corporate risk management, insurance broking and general consulting services, joining from WTW where he was GB Health and Social Care Industry Practice leader. Before joining WTW, he held various leadership roles at Marsh and EY in the UK and Asia, supporting clients across a range of sectors and leading organic and inorganic growth through thought leadership and innovation.
“David has a strong reputation in the industry for delivering client value across a broad range of services and driving significant growth throughout his career. We are pleased to welcome him to the team as we continue to focus on deepening client relationships and evolving our offerings to meet their emerging needs”, Kielty said.
Miller Appoints Alesco’s Hardcastle as Head of Delegated Authorities
Miller, the leading independent specialist re/insurance broker, announced the appointment of Chris Hardcastle as head of Delegated Authorities, a newly created role. Hardcastle took up the role on April 4, 2022 and reports into Tim Norman, executive committee member and head of Delegated Authorities & Professional Risks.
With almost 30 years’ experience working in delegated authority business, Hardcastle joins from Alesco Risk Management, where he held the role of managing director of Delegated Authority for 10 years. Prior to this, he was managing director of Delegated Authority at Capsicum, now Gallagher Re. Hardcastle has also held positions at Tysers and Aon over the course of his career.
“Chris has extensive experience in developing teams in this sector and, as we continue to strengthen our well-regarded delegated authority offering, his deep technical expertise across multiple product lines and geographies will also ensure our proposition can evolve and innovate to meet the ever-changing needs of our clients,” commented Norman.
Mt. Logan Re Hires McBride as Head of Mktg. and Biz Development, Graham as CUO
Mt. Logan Re Ltd., Everest Re Group Ltd.’s third party capital unit, announced the appointment of Greg McBride to the newly created position of global head of Marketing and Business Development, and Clint Graham to the role of chief underwriting officer.
The company also announced the retirement of David Whiting, who joined Mt. Logan in 2013 and has played a critical role in its evolution as the company’s chief underwriting officer, board member, and former president.
As global head of Marketing and Business Development, Greg McBride will be responsible for the expansion of the Mt. Logan investor base with asset managers, pensions, sovereign wealth funds and endowments across the world. Prior to joining Mt. Logan, McBride held senior positions at Markel Corp. and JLT Re, where he led insurance-linked securities and global and domestic reinsurance programs. McBride earned Bachelor of Science and Master of Science degrees in Accountancy, as well as a Master of Business Administration in Finance, from Villanova University.
The company also appointed Clint Graham to chief underwriting officer, following the announced retirement of David Whiting. In his role, Graham will be responsible for managing the risk share between Everest’s reinsurance business and Mt. Logan investors. Graham joined Mt. Logan in the spring of 2021 as the head of Property Underwriting and Analytics. Prior to Everest, he served in a variety of underwriting, catastrophe modeling, and broking capacities at global re/insurance and asset management organizations including Willis Re, Arch Re, and Nephila Capital.
“I am also excited to name Clint Graham as our new chief underwriting officer, subject to government and regulatory approvals. Clint brings a wealth of experience in the property catastrophe reinsurance and capital markets convergence spaces,” said Modin.
About Mt. Logan Re Ltd.
Mt. Logan is a Bermuda registered collateralized insurer which offers alternative capital markets the opportunity to gain exposure to a diversified pool of reinsurance risks through collateralized reinsurance products. Mt. Logan has been in operation since 2013 and has approximately $900 million of assets under management as of Dec. 31, 2021.

Topics
Aon
Willis Towers Watson
