Marsh McLennan, the insurance and reinsurance broker, has launched Sentrisk, an artificial intelligence-powered platform, which aims to help businesses manage global supply chain risk.
Created through the combined capabilities of Marsh McLennan businesses Marsh and Oliver Wyman, Sentrisk uses advanced technologies such as supply chain mapping AI and geospatial satellite imaging.
With the ability to analyze deep into a firm’s supply chain, Sentrisk overlays proprietary analytics to pinpoint low, medium, and high-risk vulnerabilities down to a site, supplier, or component-specific level, Marsh McLennan said.
Users are provided with a comprehensive assessment of their supply chain risks, alerts of disruptions near critical assets, and access to risk advisory services from Marsh and Oliver Wyman. Current risks modeled include natural hazard, geopolitical, climate-related, and reputational risks as well as structural risks like single-supplier dependencies and geographic concentration.
These tools will enable organizations to map their supply chains more comprehensively than ever before and develop risk mitigation, transfer, and management strategies that more closely align to their business needs, Marsh McLennan said.
“Rising geopolitical tensions, and other risks such as the impact of climate events, mean that supply chain vulnerabilities are now among firms top concerns,” said Martin South, president and CEO of Marsh. “With Sentrisk, clients can use AI technology to make better informed decisions at pace to improve their resilience to major shocks.”
“Through Sentrisk, clients are able to gain greater perspective to inform their strategy. Through knowledge of where risks live in their supply chain, they can better anticipate risks in response to global events and take proactive measures before disruptions occur,” commented Nick Studer, president and CEO of Oliver Wyman Group.
Source: Marsh McLennan

Topics
InsurTech
Data Driven
Artificial Intelligence
Tech
