This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Mosaic and Everest Reinsurance.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Mosaic Expands Team of Underwriting Specialists in Canada
Mosaic Insurance has built out its team of underwriting specialists to provide global capacity in five lines of business to brokers and clients across Canada.
The global firm opened an office in Toronto, Ontario last July, and since then, has expanded coast to coast in the Canadian specialty insurance market across five highly-relevant product lines—cyber, transactional liability, financial institutions, professional liability, and environmental liability.
“We’re tremendously proud of building our team of strong underwriting talent in five core product lines across all major Canadian geographies,” said Head of Canada Ian Fraser. “It’s a lot to have accomplished in a relatively short period of time. Our focus remains on creating innovative solutions for clients.”
Fraser, who has more than 20 years’ experience in the specialty sphere and underwrites cyber, financial institutions, and professional liability, is joined in the Toronto hub by a team of four specialists:
Mosaic’s hybrid global model combines capacity from its own Lloyd’s syndicate, 1609, with capital from a consortia of carrier partners seeking regional access and underwriting expertise in non-commoditized specialty lines. Mosaic retains decision-making control over rates, line sizes, and claims settlement.
“Our syndicated capital program is an integral part of the differentiating value we offer the Canadian market,” noted Fraser. “It allows us to distribute syndicated capacity directly, and that provides diversification to clients. It’s what they want and it’s unique in Canada.”
Mosaic launched primary cyber coverage in May this year, including activation of Mosaic x SAFEinside, a collaboration with Palo Alto digital risk-quantification firm SAFE Security. That was followed in June by the opening of Mosaic’s environmental liability unit in Canada, offering energy clients multi-line coverage across other specialties, including cyber and professional liability.
The company also accommodates financial institutions clients across product lines, including directors and officers (D&O), errors and omissions (E&O), crime and cyber coverage.
Everest Re Taps PartnerRe’s Schiattone as Global Head of Financial Risk
Everest Reinsurance, the reinsurance division of Everest Group Ltd., has appointed Marco Schiattone global head of Financial Risk. He is based in Zurich and reports to Artur Klinger, head of International Reinsurance.
Schiattone brings more than two decades of experience leading global credit and financial risk teams, most recently at PartnerRe where he led the Latin America and Southern Europe financial risk business. Schiattone also served as product leader of the firm’s Medium-Long Term Credit and Political Risks (MLTCP) portfolio.
Earlier in his career, he held credit, surety and political risks underwriting roles of increasing responsibility at Arch Re, Ariel Re, Swiss Re, SACE and Generali. Schiattone holds a master’s degree in international economics and diplomacy from the University of Trieste and a doctorate in International Finance from the École des Ponts-ParisTech.
He is an active contributor to the Pan American Surety Association as well as the International Credit Insurance and Surety Association and is a member of the International Institute for Strategic Studies. Schiattone serves as an adjunct professor of country risk management at MIB Trieste, School of Management.
“From credit and surety to political risk and mortgage, Marco will lead a unified underwriting strategy focused on solving our clients’ and brokers’ most complex risks,” said Klinger. “His extensive global financial risk expertise and deep global relationship network is key to driving growth opportunities as we continue to deepen our foothold in markets around the world.”

Topics
Liability
Underwriting
Canada
