This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Everest Reinsurance and Swiss Re Corporate Solutions
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Everest Re Promotes Wallace to Head of UK Branch and CUO
Everest Reinsurance, the reinsurance division of Everest Group Ltd., has appointed Mark Wallace as head of UK Branch and chief underwriting officer, subject to regulatory approval. He is based in London and will report to Artur Klinger, head of International Reinsurance.
Wallace replaces Paul Tester who has been appointed SVP, executive advisory director, International Reinsurance. Tester will continue as head of UK Branch through the regulatory transition.
Wallace will be responsible for managing and directing the strategy and underwriting operations of the UK branch. He was most recently Everest Reinsurance UK’s deputy chief underwriting officer and head of Long Tail. He played a significant role in building Everest’s portfolio on a wide range of products from single line programs to multiline treaties for both global and London market clients.
Prior to Everest, Wallace spent a decade at Hiscox plc as pricing actuary and head of Pricing, Transport, Energy and Recall. He earned a bachelor’s degree in history from the Royal Holloway University and is a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries.
“Mark has been instrumental in elevating our UK business and is well positioned with extensive global liability and specialty reinsurance expertise and a strong relationship network to lead our growing business as we continue to deepen our foothold in the UK market,” said Klinger. “I want to thank Paul for his exceptional leadership over the past 16 years and look forward to working closely with both of them and our senior team to position us for future opportunity.”
Swiss Re Corporate Solutions Names Rüsch as Head of DACH Region
Swiss Re Corporate Solutions has appointed Michael Rüsch as head DACH, effective April 1, 2024. In this newly created role, Rüsch will be responsible for managing Swiss Re Corporate Solutions’ strategy, development and performance in the German, Swiss and Austrian commercial insurance markets.
As of April 1, 2024, Bijan Daftari, currently country head Germany and Austria, will assume the newly created role of head EMEA Strategy & Execution. In this function, Daftari will act as strategic adviser to the CEO EMEA Swiss Re Corporate Solutions, Nina Arquint, and support her in further developing and implementing the EMEA strategy.
“Michael is a very strong leader with broad industry experience and a proven track record. With his established customer and broker relationships, and deep market knowledge, he is very well positioned to drive Swiss Re Corporate Solutions’ continued growth in the DACH region,” Arquint said.
“Bijan has been instrumental in transforming Swiss Re Corporate Solutions into a successful and very focused insurance partner of choice for corporates in Germany and Austria. With his strength to bring strategy to life from vision to implementation and his long-term perspective, he is the right person to support us in defining and executing our strategic ambitions and priorities,” she added.

Topics
Swiss Re
