The global economy could be exposed to losses of US$14.5 trillion over a five-year period from the threat of a hypothetical geopolitical conflict causing widespread disruption to global trade patterns and supply chains, according to a report published by Lloyd’s, the insurance and reinsurance marketplace.
With more than 80% of the world’s imports and exports – around 11 billion tons of goods – at sea at any given time, the closure of major trade routes due to a geopolitical conflict is one of the greatest threats to the resources needed for a resilient economy, said Lloyd’s in its Geopolitical Conflict scenario – the fifth installment in its systemic risk series.
“Understanding the vulnerability of shipping routes is critical to protecting economies in the event of disruption,” the report continued.
Global Election Super-Cycle Raises Risk of Political Violence, Large Insurance Losses
The economic impacts of the geopolitical conflict scenario stem primarily from severe damage to infrastructure in the conflict region and the need for realignment of global trade networks due to the enforcement of sanctions and the effects of compromised shipping lines, Lloyd’s said.
The impact on businesses would depend on the region where they are located and factors such as involvement in the conflict as well as reliance on international trade and the goods that would be delayed or lost due to the supply chain disruptions, the report continued. “Europe for example, which is heavily reliant upon other industrially advanced states for supplies like semiconductors for car and electronics manufacturing, could stand to lose up to US$3.4 trillion,” Lloyd’s said. (Editor’s note: Insurance Journal has provided links to pages of the report where the information cited can be found.)
“One thing is clear, when a crucial supply chain pinch point is blocked, the effects are felt immediately, and ramifications can be long-lasting,” said Lloyd’s, pointing to the incident in 2021 when the Ever Given container ship ran aground in the Suez Canal, blocking international trade for six days.
“This single event halted the flow of over 12% of the world’s trade flows through the region. Shockwaves were felt long after the ship had been refloated and continued its journey. Lloyd’s List estimated that Ever Given held up $9.6 billion in trade for every day the canal was blocked and caused an estimated 60-day shipping delay,” the report noted.
Lloyd’s said the sectors most at risk from geopolitical conflicts are:
(Lloyd’s included a PDF document with key insights in the scenario report.)
Lloyd’s said risk owners can take steps to insulate their organizations from the impacts of geopolitical conflicts, including:
Insurance as Safety Net
Insurance can be a safety net amid the chaos and uncertainty of geopolitical conflicts, Lloyd’s affirmed.
The value of insurance extends “to the compounding secondary impacts of geopolitical conflict, including downstream delays and interruptions by impacted trading partners and suppliers,” according to Rebekah Clement, Lloyd’s corporate affairs director, in a statement. “Examples of insurance covers which can help businesses protect themselves against these impacts include political risk insurance and contingent business interruption, as well as dedicated war risk insurance.”
Lloyd’s acknowledged that war has long been viewed as a nearly uninsurable risk. “The war exclusion is almost as old as the insurance industry itself. Companies and individuals faced with a known risk may be able to purchase a separate war risk insurance policy however, and as demonstrated in response to the Ukraine war, specific coverages can be arranged through cross-sector collaboration to support the safe passage of vital exports and relief efforts.”
The report discussed some of the coverages available for geopolitical risk exposures:
The geopolitical conflict scenario report was produced in partnership with the Cambridge Centre for Risk Studies. Other scenarios in the systemic risk series have covered extreme weather events leading to food and water shock (July 2023), cyber attack (October 2023), global economic stagnation (January 2024), and volcanic eruption (May 2024).
Source: Lloyd’s
Related:

Topics
Excess Surplus
Lloyd's
