Assurex Global announced that GrECo, based in Istanbul, Turkey, has joined the global partnership, which now consists of 97 independent brokerages.
GrECo Turkey´s specialties are far-reaching, including agriculture, biotech, construction, energy, international, multinational employee benefits, and real estate, said Assurex Global in a statement.
GrECo International Sigorta ve Reasürans Brokerligi AS was founded in 2013, a green-field company launched by Austria-based GrECo International Holding AG. The Turkish operation is part of the family-owned company’s strategic growth plans, with locations throughout central and eastern Europe.
Assurex Global said it is planning to strategically add several new partner firms in 2022 as it continues to grow and enhance its offerings. Partner firms must meet stringent selection standards, so clients know they’re working with the best when choosing an Assurex Global partner, Assurex Global explained.
“The addition of GrECo to our partnership will effectively strengthen our reach and capabilities both in the Europe/Middle East/Africa region as well as worldwide,” said Assurex Global President & CEO Dean Hildebrandt. “As a best-in-class firm in the industry, their election helps us further our practice of being active participants in our partners’ growth.”
“We are excited about this new chapter as we enter into the Assurex Global Partnership,” said Friedrich Neubrand, CEO of GrECo International Holding AG.” As we continue to grow and look toward the future, this will be a great fit for us, and we are eager to start collaborating with our fellow partners.”
About Assurex Global
Founded in 1954 and based in Columbus, Ohio, Assurex Global is a privately held commercial insurance, risk management and employee benefits brokerage group, which operates as an exclusive partnership with more than 600 partner offices.
Source: Assurex Global

Topics
Agencies
