This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Lloyd’s and White Bear Group.
Details of these new hires follows here.
Lloyd’s Appoints AIG Veteran Baugh as New Council Member, Succeeding Maidment
Lloyd’s, the insurance and reinsurance marketplace, announced that Alexander Baugh has been appointed as an independent nominated member of Council of Lloyd’s, chair of Lloyd’s Risk Committee, and a member of Lloyd’s Audit Committee, subject to regulatory approval.
He succeeds Neil Maidment (the current chair of Lloyd’s Risk Committee) who will be stepping down from Lloyd’s Council at the end of January, having served as a member of the council and the former Franchise Board for nine years.
Baugh is an AIG veteran who currently serves as a consultant to the group, having worked for the company for over 30 years in various US and international leadership roles. Most recently, Baugh served as president of the North America business for 18 months before taking on the role of global chief underwriting officer liability and financial lines, a role he held until 2022. He was part of the general insurance leadership team and served on the Ascot board for five years.
“Alexander brings deep risk experience from his time at AIG, both as chief risk officer but also later in his career as global underwriting officer and CEO for North America,” commented Bruce Carnegie-Brown, chairman of Lloyd’s.
“He also has a deep connection with Lloyd’s, having worked in the London market for 12 years. He has maintained this connection through AIG’s two Lloyd’s syndicates through Ascot’s board when it was owned by AIG. I look forward to welcoming Alexander to the Council of Lloyd’s and thank Neil for his significant contribution to the governance of Lloyd’s over so many years.”
The Council of Lloyd’s comprises 15 members split between six elected members (three working and three external), three executives (CEO, CFO, chief of markets) and six nominated members. Nominated members of council are Lloyd’s equivalent to independent non-executive directors. Members of council serve for three-year terms, renewable up to a total of nine years (in line with wider governance best practice).
White Bear Managers Taps Former Castel Bloodstock Underwriters Woodward and Long
White Bear Group, which includes Blenheim Underwriting Ltd. (the Lloyd’s managing agency) and White Bear Managers Ltd. (an MGA trading platform), announced the appointment of Tara Woodward as bloodstock underwriter and Madeline Long as bloodstock underwriting assistant.
The pair will aid in further expanding the White Bear Manager’s portfolio of specialist MGA trading units, which now includes bloodstock alongside energy liability, builders risk, management liability, and aviation.
Following an amicable departure from Ryan Specialty Group, bloodstock will continue to operate under a binding authority agreement backed by Lloyd’s capacity that now includes the addition of Blenheim Syndicate 5886.
Prior to this appointment, Woodward held the title of head of Bloodstock at Castel Specialty, following a similar role at Novae Plc. Long also joins from Castel Specialty.
The pair hold nearly 35 years’ experience between them, specializing primarily in the mortality of breeding and racing thoroughbreds, high value sports, show horses and fertility of new thoroughbred stallion prospects.

Topics
Excess Surplus
Liability
Underwriting
Lloyd's
AIG
