Guy Carpenter, the reinsurance business of Marsh McLennan, announced the appointment of Julian Enoizi as CEO of Guy Carpenter Europe effective immediately. Enoizi will be based in Europe and report to Laurent Rousseau, CEO of Guy Carpenter Europe, Middle East and Africa, and Global Capital Solutions.
In this role, Enoizi will be responsible for leading Guy Carpenter’s broking operations across its European offices. Enoizi joined Guy Carpenter in April 2022, serving as the Global Leader of its Public Sector Solutions Practice, which he will continue to lead until a successor is appointed.
Prior to joining Guy Carpenter, Enoizi served as CEO of Pool Re, a position he took up in 2013. Previously, he held senior Europe-based roles at Chubb and AIG Europe, before becoming CEO of CNA Europe and later President & CEO of Argo International.
Dorothee Mélis-Moutafis who has served as interim CEO of Guy Carpenter Europe since April, will take on a new executive role where she will be responsible for strategic c-suite engagement for current and prospective clients, while also continuing in her role as a Global Account Executive. She will continue to be based in New York.
Mélis-Moutafis joined Guy Carpenter in 2013 and has held a succession of senior management positions in Europe and the US, most recently as interim CEO of Guy Carpenter Europe and Chief Operating Officer of Guy Carpenter North America. She will remain close to the European business as she supports Julian and Laurent in their transition.
“Julian is one of the firm’s most experienced and recognised senior executives. He will bring to this role a strong focus on delivering the services and solutions that will help clients across Europe address the wide range of issues their organisations face,” commented Dean Klisura, president and CEO of Guy Carpenter.
Commenting on Mélis-Moutafis’ appointment, Klisura added: “Dorothée has a proven track record as a client-focused leader and brings a wealth of experience to her new position. Both her and Julian’s appointments reflect the deep bench of talent we have across Guy Carpenter.”
Source: Guy Carpenter

Topics
Europe
