This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Willis Towers Watson, Optio Group and MS Amlin.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
WTW Hires MS Amlin’s Singh for Climate Analytics, Exposure Mgmt
Insurance broker WTW announced it has appointed David Singh as head of Climate Analytics and Exposure Management for its Insurance Consulting and Technology business. In his new role, Singh will be based in London and is to join the company in March 2022.
Singh served as the group head of Exposure & Portfolio Management at global insurer MS Amlin, where he was responsible for the group’s risk aggregation and reporting activities across all its legal entities. He most recently project managed the delivery of exposure, portfolio and underwriting performance solutions for natural and man-made catastrophe exposures in its European entity AISE.
Prior to MS Amlin, Singh worked for Lloyd’s of London with senior responsibilities that included managing the society’s catastrophe risk appetite, managing multiple regulatory filings to and from the market, and ensuring managing agents exceed Lloyd’s expectations and exposure management standards. During his time at Lloyd’s, he devised and implemented a number of catastrophe model validation concepts and Solvency II returns that are still used in the market today.
With over 20 years of modeling and reporting experience across multiple underwriting classes and regulatory regimes, Singh has chaired the Lloyd’s Market Association’s (LMA) Exposure Management Working Group (EMWG), co-founded and co-chaired its Climate Risk Working Group (CRWG), and was a member of the LMA’s Cyber Risk and Strategy Group (CRSG). Singh also holds a position on the ISCM’s (International Society of Catastrophe Managers) Board of Directors.
Singh has been instrumental in assisting the insurance market with many aspects of managing natural catastrophe exposures. He has comprehensive modeling validation and climate risk knowledge and has been consulted on model completeness frameworks and climate-related catastrophe risk solutions for and on behalf of the Lloyd’s market.
“David brings an exceptional level of expertise and experience in exposure management to this new role. Insurers are under increasing pressure to understand and tackle the growing uncertainty around climate change-related risks as they look to evolve the role of exposure management in the business,” commented Adhiraj Maitra, global head of ESG and Climate Change, Insurance Consulting and Technology at WTW.
“Working with colleagues across the ICT and Climate and Resilience Hub teams, as well as the wider WTW business, David will be an invaluable asset in leading the development of innovative and practical propositions to help insurers respond and adapt quickly to the climate challenge,” Maitra added.
MGA Optio Names Hartford’s Robinson as MD
Optio Group, the London-based specialty managing general agent, announced the appointment of David Robinson as managing director, effective March 1.
Based in London, Robinson will join the group executive committee and oversee Optio’s underwriting, claims and data support functions and report to executive chairman Matthew Fosh.
Robinson brings more than three decades of experience to Optio, including 25 years at Chubb and then ACE, where he ultimately became regional president, UK & Ireland, with responsibility for property/casualty, accident and health, specialty personal lines and high net worth personal lines. He joins Optio from The Hartford, where he was head of international financial lines.
“David joins Optio during a period of considerable expansion across multiple lines and geographies and following our recent acquisitions of Brockwell and Northcourt,” said Fosh. David is an underwriter of exceptional calibre and his vast experience will be a tremendous asset in realising our strategic ambitions. I am delighted to welcome him to Optio.”
Optio Group is one of the largest independently owned specialty MGAs, managing in excess of $385 million GWP.
MS Amlin Taps Sirius’ O’Donnell as Property U/W
MS Amlin Underwriting Ltd. (MS AUL), the Lloyd’s global specialty re/insurer, announced the appointment of Nathan O’Donnell as senior underwriter. O’Donnell joined the business on March 7 and reports to Sam Geddes, head of Property and Allied Lines.
O’Donnell brings more than 20 years’ experience within the Lloyd’s market, with extensive expertise in direct and facultative property insurance, and a vast knowledge of the U.S. and international property markets.
He was most recently a senior property underwriter at Sirius International since 2017, where he managed the team and oversaw the 75% growth of the portfolio in 2019-2020. Prior to this, he held roles at Novae Group, Mitsui Sumitomo, Chaucer, and Heritage Managing Agency.
MS Amlin Underwriting Ltd. is a leading global re/insurer, part of the global top-10 insurance group MS&AD, with operations in the Lloyd’s, UK, Middle East and Asia markets.

Topics
Maryland
Property
Mississippi
Willis Towers Watson
