Gallagher has launched an insurance brokerage in Japan, which specializes in insurance solutions to both commercial clients and wholesale facultative insurance to other brokers.
The Japanese unit is led by two former Marsh executives: Takuya Aibe and Tetsuro Nakazawa. Previously managing director at Marsh, Aibe has been appointed CEO of Gallagher Japan’s retail operations. Nakazawa was formerly Marsh’s placement leader, and has been named CEO of Gallagher’s wholesale and facultative insurance division, which is dedicated to providing insurance services to other brokers in Japan, who may not have Gallagher’s global access, scale and reach.
The business will form part of Gallagher’s North Asia operations under Regional CEO Thomas Wang, who joined the company in 2021 to grow the firm’s presence in the region.
A team of approximately 15 people will look after clients from Gallagher’s Japan headquarters in Tokyo, providing risk management and insurance solutions for businesses in sectors including property/casualty, marine, financial lines, energy, construction and aviation. As well as broking and risk management services, the team will also offer businesses support with employee benefits services and products.
The Japan team will complement Gallagher’s existing reinsurance team in Tokyo, led by Tsuyoshi Noguchie, and part of the Gallagher Re global business.
Gallagher said it already has a significant client base in Japan, the world’s second largest developed economy. The creation of a new hub in the country enables the firm to further expand its offering and provide tailored products and services from a team that is based locally and understands the Japanese trading environment.
The launch marks another major milestone in Gallagher’s plans to expand across in Asia. The firm already has hubs in Singapore and India, complemented by operations in Hong Kong, Malaysia, the Philippines and Indonesia.
“I am thrilled to be leading Gallagher’s insurance and risk management offering to clients in Japan. Gallagher is well known for its ethical approach to doing business and having an on-the-ground presence in Japan presents strong growth opportunities,” commented Aibe.
“As one of the world’s largest brokers with extensive access to global markets Gallagher is well placed to work alongside in-country brokers to support those looking to place insurance for more complex risks,” Nakazawa said. “Japan is home to many large businesses with a range of risk management and insurance needs and we can draw on the experience of our 43,000 employees globally, and our extensive 130 country strong network to ensure they get the right cover.”
“Gallagher has grown in Asia over the last few years, and with a number of the emerging economic global powerhouses based in the region, it is an area of expansion for us,”  Wang said.
With a team based in Japan, Gallagher’s regional and multinational clients will get the best in local knowledge and technical insurance expertise, he added.
Gallagher is the brand name of Arthur J. Gallagher & Co., the global insurance broker, risk management services and consulting firm headquartered in Rolling Meadows, Ill.
Source: Arthur J. Gallagher & Co.
Photograph: Mount Fuji appears behind the skyline of skyscrapers in the Shinjuku shopping and business district Monday, March 29, 2021, in Tokyo. (AP Photo/Kiichiro Sato)

Topics
Agencies
A.J. Gallagher
Japan
