This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Price Forbes Re and Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI).
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Price Forbes Re Names Gallagher Re’s Cole as EVP, Head of Financial Lines
Price Forbes Re has hired Brian Cole as executive vice president, head of Financial Lines as it builds out its offering in the US.
Based in Boston, Cole will lead the development of Price Forbes Re’s financial lines practice, working closely with North America CEO Patrick Rastiello, who joined the business in February.
With more than 30 years’ experience, Cole joins from Gallagher Re (formerly Willis Re) where he was executive vice president. Previously, he was head of Casualty at Lockton Re, and head of D&O at Guy Carpenter.
“I’ve spent most of my career at the big reinsurance brokerage houses and was ready for a new approach,” commented Cole. “I was attracted by Ardonagh’s track record in growth, handling around $18 billion of premium globally, and Price Forbes Re’s ambitious plans for growth in the US, Bermuda, and London markets. Price Forbes Re has demonstrated that it’s the place to connect seasoned professionals across jurisdiction and specialism to deliver a comprehensive program for clients.”
“Developing a strong financial lines vertical is a key part of our expansion plan. We are hiring top-class reinsurance professionals in the US, backed by outstanding analytics and service model. Brian’s arrival demonstrates that we are a gathering place for reinsurance professionals to provide exceptional client support,” according to Rastiello.
Price Forbes Re is an independent specialist risk strategy and reinsurance broker based in London, Bermuda, and the US. It is a subsidiary of the broker Ardonagh Group, the London-based independent insurance distribution platform.
BHSI Names Aon’s Pache for PI/Cyber Team, DACH Region, Schumacher as Property U/W
Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI) announced it has named Thomas Pache to lead its newly launched PI and Cyber Insurance lines in the DACH region, and Kim Schumacher as senior property underwriter. Both Pache and Schumacher will be located in BHSI’s newly opened Hamburg office.
Pache comes to BHSI with more than three decades of industry experience – most recently from Aon in Germany. In this newly created role, he will focus on delivering comprehensive PI and cyber solutions to customers, with a focus on the information technology and software industry segments. He can be reached at thomas.pache@bhspecialty.com
Joining BHSI from QBE Europe, Schumacher will focus on growing BHSI’s Mittelstand property business in Germany. She comes to BHSI with almost 20 years of industry experience. Earlier in her career, Schumacher was an insurance broker. She can be reached at kim.schumacher@bhspecialty.com.
“I am excited to continue to expand the expertise and solutions BHSI brings to the DACH region as we expand both our product lines and our local presence,” said Andreas Krause, head of DACH.
BHSI offers property, casualty and executive & professional lines solutions in Germany and throughout the DACH region.

Topics
Cyber
Property
Aon
A.J. Gallagher
