This edition of International People Moves details appointments at the re/insurance MGA Rokstone and Arch Insurance.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Rokstone Taps Hogarth From Castel for Direct & Facultative Property Team
Rokstone, the London-based speciality re/insurance MGA that is part of the Aventum Group, announced it has appointed Henry Hogarth as senior underwriter in its Direct & Facultative (D&F) Property team.
Hogarth joins from the MGA Castel, where he spent four years as head of Castel Facultative. He brings with him over 15 years’ reinsurance expertise, covering property, power and onshore energy. His previous experience includes roles at AXA XL and Allianz Reinsurance. His appointment to the nine-strong team demonstrates Rokstone’s continued investment in growing its worldwide D&F portfolio.
Rokstone is one of the world’s largest MGAs, with offices in the UK, Europe, USA, Asia, Africa and the Middle East. It is a leading specialist MGA serving the needs of international re/insurance brokers in the specialty lines business. It currently underwrites more than US$1.1 billion gross written premiums in specialty lines such as property, power generation, marine, aviation, warranty, credit & surety treaty, agriculture, construction & engineering, accident & health, contingency, liability and sports & leisure.
Arch Insurance Taps Laazaouzi From CNA Hardy as Senior Casualty U/W in France
Arch Insurance has appointed Rachida Laazaouzi as senior casualty underwriter, effective immediately.
Laazaouzi joins Arch Insurance (EU) dac (AIEU), which provides specialist property and casualty insurance solutions within the European Union. Based in Paris, she is responsible for growing Arch’s casualty portfolio in France, writing primary, umbrella and excess liability cover across a broad range of sectors including industrial, manufacturing and rail.
Laazaouzi is a highly accomplished casualty underwriter with over 17 years of experience in the sector. She joins from CNA Hardy Insurance where she was most recently a senior casualty underwriter. Prior to this, she held underwriting roles at Swiss Re Corporate Solutions and Zurich.
“Casualty is a core line of business for Arch globally, and at AIEU, we’re committed to strengthening our EU-wide presence in the sector through developing local market-leading teams and solutions,” commented Matthew Brophy, chief underwriting officer, AIEU.

Topics
Property
Casualty
