This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Allianz Commercial and AXA XL.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Allianz Commercial Names Martin as Chief Risk & Resilience Officer
Allianz Commercial announced that Aymeric Martin, currently chief financial officer of Allianz Ireland, will join the board of Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty SE (AGCS SE) as chief risk and resilience officer (CRRO), with effect from April 1, 2025, subject to regulatory approval. (AGCS SE is the legal entity of Allianz with board responsibility for Allianz Commercial.)
In this newly created role, Martin will take responsibility for Risk Management, Compliance, Underwriting Integrity & Solutions, and Global Capital Management.
Prior to his current role, Martin worked for over 10 years at Allianz in Paris and Munich in a range of finance and strategy leadership positions.
He qualified as an attorney in France, and earned a master’s degree in European Law from Université Côte d’Azur (Nice), a master’s degree in accounting from Université d’Angers (Angers), and a master’s degree in finance and business administration from Management School ESSCA (Angers).
About Allianz Commercial
Allianz Commercial brings together the large corporate insurance business of Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty (AGCS) and the commercial insurance business of national Allianz Property & Casualty entities serving mid-sized companies. The company is present in more than 200 countries and territories either through its own teams or the Allianz Group network and partners. In 2023, the integrated business of Allianz Commercial generated around €18 billion in gross premium globally.
AXA XL Promotes Dores to Country Manager, Iberia
AXA XL announced the appointment of Ana Dores as country manager, Iberia, effective March 1, subject to regulatory approval. She will succeed Enrique Lopez Torrents who will be leaving AXA XL to pursue opportunities outside of AXA Group.
Dores started her career with AIG in 2005 as a financial lines underwriter, first in Portugal and later in Spain. She then worked for Liberty International Underwriters before joining AXA XL in 2014 in Madrid as a senior professional indemnity underwriter. She was promoted to deputy underwriting manager and then underwriting manager for International Financial Lines in Iberia.
In 2022, she was appointed chief underwriting officer, International Financial Lines for the APAC & Europe Business Unit. Dores joined AXA XL’s Leadership Team Advisory Council.
“The Iberia region is critical to the growth of our business in Europe. It is a strategic market for several of our key regional initiatives, including specialty, the mid-market segment, multinational solutions, and the development of international markets in Portugal and Latin America,” commented Julien Guénot, regional manager, Southern Europe.
“Ana is a well-known and respected figure in the Spanish market. Her 20 years of experience in commercial lines, both in Spain and across the wider Europe and APAC regions, position her ideally to lead our teams in Spain and to continue to support our clients and brokers,” he added.

Topics
Commercial Lines
Allianz
AXA XL
