Howden, the London-based independent insurance broker, announced the acquisition of Swiss broker Born Consulting AG.
Founded in 2003 and based in Bern, Switzerland, Born Consulting is an independent insurance broker for national and international intermediaries, large companies and the public sector.  Today, the group employs over 30 people and prides itself on its “entrepreneur for entrepreneurs” culture and tailored customer offerings.
Financial details of the deal were not released.
“Howden is the perfect new home for us and provides us with the opportunity to continue to play an active and entrepreneurial role in shaping the company.  Our clients will benefit from the advantages of an international brokerage group, with distribution and expertise in 45 countries, combined with our local knowledge and capabilities,” commented Massimo Contino, CEO of Born Consulting AG.
“By joining Howden we can continue to grow our business and provide an unrivalled, client-focused service as part of a company that values independence and an employee-first culture,” Contino added.
“The acquisition of Born Consulting fits perfectly with our growth strategy of consistent and steady execution through strong organic growth, talent acquisition and strategic partnerships with like-minded firms that share our culture of entrepreneurship and ownership,” said Felix C. Jenny, CEO of Howden Switzerland.
“With the acquisition of Born Consulting we continue to cement our position as one of the leading brokers in Europe. We both share the same principles based on top talent, employee empowerment and a collective culture and vision, all of which are underpinned by an enviable client-centric approach,” according to Luigi Sturani, CEO, Howden Europe.
The acquisition “brings us a step closer in fulfilling our ambition to position Howden among the leading brokers in Switzerland and we’re looking forward to welcoming Born Consulting’s employees and clients to Howden,” he continued.
Founded in 1994, Howden now employs over 12,000 people worldwide and includes proprietary businesses in Europe, Asia, Africa, Latin America and the Middle East.
Source: Howden Broking

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
