This edition of International People Moves details appointments at
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Aon’s Mason to Expand Leadership Role in UK
Insurance broker Aon plc announced that Michelle Mason is to expand her role as head of Enterprise Clients (ECG) to include the strategic leadership of the UK Major Complex and Enterprise (MCE) segment.
In her new role, Mason will lead the segment which includes some of Aon’s largest and most complex UK clients. She will work with MCE leaders to ensure client needs are met and will support the continued expansion of Aon retention and growth strategies. Mason will continue to report into both Lori Goltermann, chief client officer, at Aon, and Julie Page, CEO, UK, Aon.
Mason has over 23 years’ experience in insurance and risk management, covering cross-class global account management and enterprise and operational risk management consulting. She has worked with complex clients to develop and deliver their risk management and insurance strategies. Mason joined Aon UK in 2017, where she was managing director of the Global and Specialty business until taking on her Enterprise Client leadership role at the end of last year.
Chubb Appoints AIG’s Madden for Financial Lines
Chubb announced the appointment of Carene Madden as financial lines manager for the United Kingdom, Ireland and South Africa (UKISA.)
In this role, Madden will be responsible for managing and developing the growth of Chubb’s Financial Lines business in its UKISA region. Madden joins Chubb from AIG where she was UK Financial Institutions Manager since 2019.
Based in London, Madden will report to Hilda Toh, property and casualty chief underwriting officer for UKISA. The appointment is effective in the second quarter of 2023.
Madden has more than 25 years’ experience in the insurance industry, primarily focused on financial lines, and returns to Chubb following an earlier 13-year spell in a variety of roles in the UK and Ireland. She will succeed Janet Edey who has chosen to step down and is moving back into her previous role as management liability manager for UKISA on a temporary basis.
“I am delighted to welcome Carene back to Chubb. Carene is an outstanding insurance practitioner who is highly regarded within the market and her depth of experience within financial lines means she will be able to develop further the growth of this important line of business and continue to build on the success we have seen under Janet’s impressive leadership,” Toh said.
Sedgwick Names Leif Hansen as CEO of Nordic Region
Sedgwick, the Memphis, Tenn.-based loss adjuster, announced that Christian Leif Hansen has been named its CEO of the Nordic region.
His appointment reflects the growth of operations in the area following the acquisition of Sedgwick Leif Hansen A/S in Denmark earlier this year. Sedgwick said Leif Hansen will lead more than 250 Sedgwick colleagues throughout the Nordic region.
The Nordic region’s leadership team includes Dan Sivertsen, who was recently appointed CEO of Norway, Julia Holm, CEO in Sweden, and Peter Agger, deputy CEO in Denmark.
“Since finalizing our acquisition of Sedgwick Leif Hansen A/S, the pace of growth activity across the Nordic region has increased significantly,” said Stewart Steel, Sedgwick CEO for continental Europe, the Middle East and Africa (CEMEA). “This has laid a strong foundation for our enhanced Nordic leadership team structure to flourish and continue developing Sedgwick’s offerings there. Christian’s immense experience and strategic vision will ensure that our colleagues across the Nordic countries are optimally positioned as we grow in this important region.”

Topics
Leadership
Aon
AIG
Chubb
