This edition of International People Moves details appointments at SCOR UK, CFC Underwriting, and Allianz Trade.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
SCOR Taps AXA XL’s Guest as Head of Crisis Management
SCOR announced the appointment of David Guest as head of Crisis Management for SCOR UK and the SCOR Syndicate. His remit includes Terrorism and Political Violence and is effective Oct. 24, 2022.
Based in London, Guest reports to Marie Biggas, chief underwriting officer of SCOR UK and active underwriter of the SCOR Syndicate.
Guest brings with him more than 26 years of industry experience, having led underwriting teams across the UK and Asia-Pacific re/insurance markets. He joins SCOR from his most recent position as global specialty regional leader, APAC & Middle East at AXA XL. Having begun his career as a marine underwriter at Hiscox in 1995, Guest has since held a number of senior roles at XL Catlin and AXA XL.
He was a long-standing member of the Lloyd’s Market Association’s Terrorism and Political Violence Panel, where he also served as deputy chairman for three years. Since 2002, Guest has specialized in war, terrorism and political violence, having developed and underwritten policies for clients in more than 150 countries.
Guest holds a Bachelor of Science in Economics from the University of Bristol and has an Advanced Diploma in Insurance from the Chartered Insurance Institute.
Former Beazley Exec Beattie Joins CFC as Head of Innovation
CFC, the specialist insurance provider, pioneer in emerging risk and market leader in cyber, announced today that it has appointed George Beattie as head of Innovation.
In this newly created role and leveraging CFC’s cutting edge technology and data science, Beattie will lead a team focused on delivering industry first solutions and next generation insurance products designed for the emerging risks of tomorrow.
Beattie will be starting his new role in January 2023 and joins CFC from Beazley where he has led the incubation underwriting function for the past two years. He remains in his role as co-chair of the Product Launchpad at Lloyd’s.
Allianz Trade Appoints New CEO
Allianz Trade, the trade credit insurer, announced that Aylin Somersan Coqui, currently group chief risk officer of Allianz SE, will become CEO and chairperson of the Board of Management of Allianz Trade.
This change is subject to regulatory approval, and follows the departure of Clarisse Kopff, who has decided to pursue a new leadership role outside of Allianz as of Nov. 30, 2022.
Aylin Somersan Coqui (46) began her career as a financial analyst at Morgan Stanley in 1998, and then joined the Allianz Group in 2002. She served in various positions with Allianz Global Investors and PIMCO before holding multiple international leadership roles within the Group: chief financial officer (2013-2015) and chief executive officer (2016-2018) at Allianz Turkey, chief human resources officer at Allianz SE (2019) and board member and labor director at Allianz Deutschland AG (2019-2020). Since 2020, Somersan Coqui has been group chief risk officer at Allianz SE.
She will become CEO and Chairperson of the Board of Management of Allianz Trade, and her appointment is subject to the standard regulatory approval requirements.
“We’d like to thank Clarisse for the excellent work she did for Allianz Trade and to wish her well in this new chapter of her career. We wish Aylin all the best in her new role, and are convinced that given her extensive background in both asset management and insurance as well as her technical expertise in risk, she is in an excellent position to oversee the continued momentum of Allianz Trade,” said Chris Townsend, member of the Board of Management of Allianz SE.
Euler Hermes was rebranded as Allianz Trade in March 2022.

Topics
InsurTech
Allianz
AXA XL
