This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Aon and Ryan Specialty Underwriting Managers International.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Aon Announces New Senior Leadership Roles in U.S. Reinsurance Solutions Team
Insurance broker Aon plc announced the creation of two new U.S. Reinsurance Solutions leadership roles.
Effectively immediately, Stephen Hofmann has been named U.S. CEO of Reinsurance Solutions for Aon, while Kevin Traetow will serve as U.S. vice chairman of Reinsurance Solutions for Aon. Hofmann and Traetow previously served as U.S. co-presidents of Reinsurance Solutions since 2021. They will both continue to report to Andy Marcell, CEO of Risk Capital for Aon.
In their new roles, Hofmann and Traetow will collaborate closely together to help formulate and drive Aon’s U.S. Reinsurance Solutions strategy, empowering the firm’s teams to consistently deliver the full breadth of Aon’s capabilities and expertise to help reinsurance clients achieve profitable growth.
Hofmann and Traetow were instrumental in the launch of the U.S. leadership framework, which emphasizes Aon’s commitment to nurturing talent and creating pathways for career advancement across the firm.
“During their tenure as co-presidents, Steve and Kevin spearheaded an impressive period of growth, deepening relationships with existing clients and expanding our portfolio with new opportunities, all while driving innovation and enabling better decisions for our clients,” Marcell said.
Ryan Specialty Underwriting Managers Int’l Hires 3 for Leadership Team
Ryan Specialty, the Chicago-based international specialty insurance firm, announced new hires within its international specialty underwriting segment, Ryan Specialty Underwriting Managers International in London.

Topics
Excess Surplus
Underwriting
New Markets
Reinsurance
Leadership
Aon
