Bermuda-based Mosaic Insurance is ramping up its global growth plan with the opening of an office in Frankfurt, Germany to meet high demand for cyber and transactional liability coverage through Continental Europe.
The office marks the sixth for Mosaic since its launch last year, following those in Bermuda, London, New York, Chicago, and Toronto.
Cyber risk specialist Dennis Bertram joins the company as director of Mosaic’s European entity and head of Europe, Cyber. The German office also includes M&A specialist Eileen Siemer, who joins Mosaic’s international transactional liability team, and cyber specialist Aron Zeiler.
Mosaic plans to further expand its presence in Frankfurt over the next 12 months with additional senior hires.
Bertram previously worked as a cyber and crime product manager at Finlex, an insurtech specializing in financial lines, and as lead cyber underwriter for Germany, Austria, and Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) at AXA XL. He began his career at Catlin Europe, gaining experience in multiple lines of business, including aviation, casualty, and marine.
Zeiler will support the cyber division’s European build-out. He began his career with Swiss Re in Germany, becoming lead underwriter, facultative cyber EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) for Swiss Re in Zurich.
Siemer will underwrite complex and multi-faceted M&A risks to develop Mosaic’s transactional liability business in the DACH (Germany, Austria, Switzerland) region. She joins the firm from RiskPoint, where she underwrote warranty and indemnity insurance in its M&A group. Previously, she served as a corporate associate at international law firms Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer and Latham & Watkins in Frankfurt, specializing in advising private equity and public and strategic clients on domestic and cross-border M&A transactions, investments, joint ventures, co-investments and management incentives.
“We’re delighted to welcome Dennis, Eileen, and Aron to build out our reach in Europe, where Mosaic can offer the advantages of Lloyd’s A-plus ratings and much-needed capacity across complex lines of business thanks to both our syndicate and our trade partners,” said David White, Mosaic’s underwriting director.
“We’re thrilled to be able to offer our capabilities and capacity to clients in Continental Europe’s largest and most mature insurance market,” said Bertram. “Frankfurt represents a vital hub, from which we can serve high client demand, as well as access business opportunities in other markets.”
Backed by private-equity firm Golden Gate Capital, Mosaic launched Feb. 4 last year as a next-generation global specialty insurer. The company deploys capacity via a global network of underwriting hubs across seven specialty product areas: transactional liability, cyber, political risk, political violence, environmental liability, financial institutions, and professional liability.
Mosaic writes on its own behalf through Syndicate 1609 and for a consortia of trade partners seeking regional access and underwriting expertise in non-commoditized lines.
Photograph: The lights of the buildings of the banking district are reflected in the river Main in Frankfurt, Germany, on Thursday, Nov. 24, 2022. Photo credit: AP Photo/Michael Probst.
Related:

Topics
Liability
Europe
