Liberty Mutual Reinsurance (LM Re), part of Liberty Mutual Insurance Group, has announced a partnership with Safehub, a technology provider in seismic sensor and risk management solutions to offer a market-first, building-specific, sensor-based, parametric earthquake re/insurance product to clients globally.
Building upon the success of a pilot program in Mexico City, where the sensor-based solution has already been rolled-out for 23 strategic locations to facilitate rapid and accurate payouts to policyholders, LM Re and Safehub are expanding the product’s reach for across the globe.
Safehub’s seismic sensor technology captures building-specific real-time data at the policyholder’s building location(s) to trigger parametric re/insurance policies. The policies are bespoke, offering coverage for specific earthquake event triggers.
Unlike other parametric products, which rely on general estimates from public agencies, this sensor-based solution offers increased accuracy in assessing earthquake impacts at the building site and, therefore, reduces the basis risk associated with determining payouts.
The parametric product expedites the claims process and policyholders benefit from quicker access to indemnification in the event of an earthquake. Furthermore, policyholders will receive near real-time alerts and rapid damage assessments to facilitate emergency response and business recovery efforts.
“We are delighted to partner with Safehub to provide our clients with sensor-based parametric earthquake coverage, offering unparalleled protection in earthquake-prone regions,” commented Jean-Christophe Garaix, head of Agriculture and Parametrics at LM Re.
“This partnership underscores our dedication to delivering innovative (re)insurance solutions that address the evolving needs of our customers. Our goal is to provide policyholders with a comprehensive solution, offering quicker access to indemnification in the face of seismic events,” Garaix added.
“We are excited to announce our exclusive partnership with LM Re. Earthquake damage is site-specific, with neighbouring buildings potentially experiencing vastly different levels of ground shaking,” according to Andy Thompson, CEO of Safehub. “With this partnership, clients gain access to building-specific data, enabling a more precise alignment of re/insurance payouts with losses, while also supporting emergency response efforts.”
Source: Liberty Mutual Reinsurance

Topics
Reinsurance
