This edition of International People Moves details appointments at AXA XL, Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI), and the cyber insurer Coalition.
AXA XL Names Hopkinson as Canada Country Manager
AXA XL announced the appointment of Glen Hopkinson as the new country manager for Canada. With immediate effect, Hopkinson, who has successfully served as the interim leader in recent months, assumes leadership of the company’s insurance operations in the country.
A seasoned claims expert, Hopkinson has been at the company for more than 10 years. He has held various leadership roles including head of Claims in Canada, Transformation Program director and most recently, head of Casualty Claims for the Americas.
Based in Toronto, Hopkinson will oversee the company’s other regional offices in Calgary, Montreal, and Vancouver. He will also work closely with the Americas Executive Leadership to ensure strategic alignment and seamless service to local and multinational clients.
BHSI Promotes Leandri to Global Risk Control Officer
Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI) announced that Jean-Francois Leandri has been promoted to the position of global risk control officer, part of BHSI’s Chief Underwriting Office, reporting to Dean LaPierre, chief underwriting officer, Property & Marine, BHSI.
Leandri joined BHSI in 2020 as risk engineering manager in France. Trained as both a Boiler & Machinery and Fire Prevention Consultant, he has more than 25 years of engineering experience spanning a wide range of occupancies and geographies. He continues to be based in Paris and can be reached at Jf.leandri@bhspecialty.com.
“Our risk engineering expertise is integral to our ability to provide superior technical risk underwriting to our customers,” said LaPierre. “Jean-Francois’ leadership will ensure a consistent level of excellence in the risk control function that is foundational to our sustainable, long-term underwriting, worldwide.”
Coalition Hires MS Amlin’s Wynne Davies as UK Special Projects Lead
Coalition, the San Francisco-based cyber managing general agent and cyber-security firm, announced that John Wynne Davies has joined the company as its first special projects lead in the UK.
Formerly MS Amlin’s strategy manager for Lloyd’s, Wynne Davies will be responsible for developing and implementing Coalition’s strategy in the UK, including building out the MGA’s UK trading platform. He will report to Australia-based Adam Robertson, Coalition’s international head of Special Projects.
Wynne Davies’ appointment is the latest in a series that has seen the new entrant to the UK cyber insurance market’s headcount more than double over its first 11 months of trading. Staff have joined from a range of businesses, including CFC Underwriting.
“The feedback we’re getting from staff is that Coalition is a very attractive proposition for professionals wanting to grow their careers in the cyber insurance market. Because many of our people and approaches come from the tech sector, staff tell us they can learn more, learn it faster, and apply it to new products and markets,” commented Tom Draper, Coalition’s UK head of Insurance.
Across its US, Canadian, and UK businesses, Coalition employs more than 600 people, working in offices and remotely worldwide.

Topics
Canada
Mississippi
AXA XL
