This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance, Apollo Syndicate Management, and specialist MGA Aqueous Underwriting.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
BHSI Launches Exec & Professional Lines in Switzerland, Led by Kammermann
Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI) announced it is introducing executive & professional (E&P) Lines coverages and named Christoph Kammermann as head of Executive & Professional Lines in Switzerland.
Kammermann has more than 25 years of industry experience and was most recently head of Financial Lines and Professional Liability at Liberty Specialty Markets in Zurich. He is a graduate of the University of Bern in Switzerland and holds a master’s in Business Administration.
“Our momentum in Switzerland continues to build quickly with these latest additions to our leadership team and our product line,” said Leander Metzger, country manager, Switzerland, BHSI.
BHSI is introducing numerous E&P policies in Switzerland, including D&O Liability and Professional Liability Insurance.
Kammermann will be based in Zurich and can be reached at Christoph.Kammermann@bhspecialty.com
Apollo Appoints Beazley’s Foster as Head of Property
Apollo Syndicate Management, the independent specialist insurer and reinsurer, announced the appointment of Kate Foster as its new head of property for Syndicate 1969.
Foster joins Apollo with a wealth of property underwriting experience. She most recently held the role of property underwriter at Beazley, where she has been since 2017. Prior to this, she has held various senior underwriting roles in the property sphere at companies including Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance and Vero. She began her career in 2000 at Hiscox.
“Property is a key part of Apollo’s offering. Kate brings extensive knowledge to the role, as we continue to generate creative and innovative solutions whilst growing our property book, working toward a resilient and sustainable future,” commented James Slaughter, Apollo group chief underwriting officer.
“We continue to focus on developing our D&F and binders portfolios, both of which remain fundamental to Apollo’s offering.”
MGA Aqueous Hires Hall as Senior Development U/W
Specialist MGA Aqueous Underwriting has hired William Hall as senior development underwriter from professional indemnity and liability broker Brunel Professions.
Hall has over 35 years’ experience in the PI and financial lines sector, starting his career at Royal Sun Alliance before launching a start-up MGA “PI Protect,” which was later acquired by Barbican Insurance. Most recently, Hall worked as an associate director at Brunel.
Aqueous writes PI for a wide range of trades and professions. The appointment of Hall is aimed at building on new business opportunities in the regional market. Earlier this year, the MGA announced it had secured an increase in its PI capacity with cover available for limits up to £15 million.
Aqueous Underwriting is a trading name of Aqueous Management Ltd., an appointed representative of Davies MGA Services Ltd.

Topics
Liability
Insurance Wholesale
Property
Professional Liability
