The Hartford and cyber-MGA Coalition announced a strategic, long-term capacity partnership in response to growing customer and broker demand for Coalition’s active cyber insurance approach in the UK market.
The new capacity agreement combines the established strength of The Hartford in the cyber market with Coalition’s approach to help businesses prevent exposures before they become disruptions, Hartford said in a statement.
As part of the agreement, The Hartford is assuming a quota share of Coalition’s UK cyber program, in addition to the insurance provider’s existing capacity partner relationships.
“We continue to capitalize on the strengths of The Hartford and our London operation, securing new opportunities to meaningfully grow our international business and footprint,” said Carl Bach, head of The Hartford’s International business.
“Drawing on our deep expertise underwriting cyber in the USmarket, we recognize the innovative model of active insurance that Coalition possesses; designed to help businesses identify and mitigate cyber risk before it becomes a disruption. We look forward to partnering with Coalition to serve more customers and brokers in the UK for years to come,” Bach added.
“We are thrilled to have The Hartford join our panel of capacity partners and support our efforts to continue providing outstanding cyber coverage to our policyholders,” said Shawn Ram, Coalition’s head of Insurance. “Coalition continues to see robust interest in our innovative and profitable Active Insurance model in the UK, which has disrupted the standard approach to cyber insurance and offered businesses a way to manage their risk as it evolves.”
About Coalition
By combining comprehensive insurance coverage and cybersecurity tools, San Francisco-based Coalition helps businesses manage and mitigate potential cyberattacks. Leveraging its relationships with leading global insurers and capacity providers, including Coalition Insurance Co., Coalition offers Active Insurance products to businesses in the United States, the UK, Canada, Australia, and Germany. Policyholders can receive automated cyber alerts and access expert advice and global third-party risk management tools through Coalition’s holistic cyber risk management platform, Coalition Control®.
Source: The Hartford

Topics
Cyber
New Markets
