Everest Re Group Ltd., the Bermuda-based re/insurer, has unveiled a refreshed brand, including a new logo and visual identity reflecting its positioning and commitment to “underwrite opportunity” for colleagues, customers, shareholders, and communities worldwide.
“There has never been a more exciting time to be part of the Everest community, and today that pride is palpable among our global colleagues who inspired our brand and shape our company’s future,” commented Juan C. Andrade, president and chief executive officer of Everest.
“From the reimagined mountain to the digitally optimized logo and design system, our refreshed brand honors Everest’s core values, growth, and strong performance in a contemporary reflection of who we are, where we are headed, and our mission to provide protection and opportunity in an increasingly complex risk environment,” he added.
Everest executives are interviewed in a film, which the company produced to accompany the launch.
“Never before has the work we do been more consequential, making this the perfect moment to unveil our brand evolution,” continued Andrade.
The brand evolution comes at “a pivotal time for our company and stakeholders as Everest continues to diversify and progress as a top performing investor and customer platform in the P&C market,” Andrade continued.
“We are expanding our primary insurance business to benefit more people and places worldwide, while simultaneously building on our position as a preeminent global reinsurance leader and preferred partner. Our ability to consistently deliver outstanding service and unmatched risk solutions, coupled with our strong, inclusive culture sets Everest apart. While modeling risk is the core of our business, humanity is the spirit that drives it. We are proud of how our refreshed brand brings this powerful value proposition to life,” he said.
This announcement comes on the heels of the company’s recent move to expand its primary insurance operations in Europe with the official opening of two new branches in Paris, France and Düsseldorf, Germany. Everest will continue to advance its international expansion plans, with a third European branch opening in Madrid, Spain, this year, which follows its recent growth in Chile and Singapore.
Source: Everest Re

Topics
Underwriting
