This edition of International People Moves details appointments at the re/insurer AXIS Capital Holdings and insurance broker Miller.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
AXIS Promotes Ashby to Chief Commercial Officer
AXIS Capital Holdings Ltd. announced it has promoted Edward Ashby to the newly created position of chief commercial officer. In addition to continuing his role as the global head of Distribution for insurance,
Ashby’s expanded responsibilities will include elevating AXIS’ business development strategies, enhancing its market visibility and the global reach of its franchise, and helping support and drive key strategic initiatives of the CEO’s Office.
Ashby joined AXIS in 2014 as Head of U.S. Distribution for its insurance business, and his role expanded to Global Head of Distribution for insurance in 2015. Previously, he spent nine years at QBE where he rose to become Head of Global Distribution – North America. Mr. Ashby began his career as an underwriter, rising to become Head of Credit & Surety within QBE’s North America business.
“Under Ed’s direction we have significantly transformed and enhanced our global distribution strategy while deepening and expanding our customer relationships, which has been a critical enabler to record production within our insurance business and the growth of our global platform,” said Vince Tizzio, president and CEO of AXIS. “Ed’s leadership will be integral as we continue to elevate and grow the AXIS franchise, unlock new revenue opportunities, and provide even further value to our customers.”
Miller Launches Parametric Team Headed by Glenister From Mastercard
Miller, the London-based independent specialist re/insurance broker, announced its expansion into the parametric insurance market with the launch of a new global team headed by Alice Glenister.
The newly formed team in London will be exclusively dedicated to parametric insurance and bring an extensive knowledge of the application of parametrics across a wide range of industries and sectors, from more conventional natural catastrophe (nat cat) triggers to highly bespoke programmes such as reduction in yield, cyber downtime, and wind deficiency policies. Expanding the scope of triggers beyond nat cat, Miller will work to provide clients with a diverse range of solutions tailored to their specific needs and risk profile.
The team will be led by Glenister who joins from Mastercard where she was director of Insurance, focusing on data-led and payment-led solutions to drive innovation across the parametric market. Glenister also brings parametric underwriting experience from her time at Generali. She will be joined by Charlie Liddle, from OneGlobal, and Rowan Minhas from Miller.

Topics
Commercial Lines
New Markets
