This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Aon and Markel.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Aon Promotes Clarke to Head of Renewables, Global Broking Centre & UK
Insurance broker Aon plc announced the promotion of Alison Clarke as head of Renewables for its Global Broking Centre (GBC) & UK. Clarke will report to Jon Wiegand, head of Power, GBC.
In her new role, Clarke will lead the London Natural Resources Renewables Practice to support Aon’s global network in delivering world-class risk advisory and placement services to clients in both on and offshore renewable power sectors.
Clarke joined Aon in September 2022 as part of the Energy Transition team. She has extensive experience in the sector with a career spanning close to three decades. Clarke was most recently a member of the risk management team at BP which followed a 25-year underwriting career as executive head of Specialty at Fidelis Insurance and head of Offshore Energy at Zurich Insurance.
Her background means she is well placed to work with Aon’s clients to deliver leading risk solutions in this highly dynamic sector, said Aon.
“As the global power industry continues to transition towards a carbon neutral future, we are constantly looking for ways to support our broad client base wherever they are positioned on their transition journey,” said Wiegand. “I am confident that under Alison’s leadership we will continue to foster the innovation and agility required to deliver the risk transfer solutions that our clients require.”
Markel Hires AIG’s Meek to Lead Cyber Portfolio in Middle East, North Africa
Markel, the insurance operation within Markel Group Inc., has hired Isaac Meek as a cyber senior underwriter.
In his new role, Meek will work closely with Priyesh Pradhan, professional and financial risk (PFR) senior underwriter at Markel India, to drive the growth of Markel’s cyber offering in MENA and the broader Asia-Pacific (APAC) region. Alongside those responsibilities, Meek will be involved in fostering broker relationships and identifying areas for further scalability within MENA.
Prior to joining Markel, Meek worked for the American Insurance Group (AIG) where he started out as an assistant underwriter, before being promoted to underwriter in 2021. During his five-year stint at AIG, he was responsible for underwriting risks across various financial lines including professional indemnity (PI) and directors & officers (D&O), while focusing on blended cyber and tech PI risks for customers domiciled in Gulf Corporation Council (GCC) countries, North Africa, Saudi Arabia, and Turkey.
Meek will be located at Markel’s Dubai office, reporting to Max Robbie, senior executive officer at Markel Dubai.
Markel Dubai’s cyber offering provides broad first-party and third-party coverage, for a broad range of industries and clients including financial institutions, hospitality, healthcare, manufacturing, retail, professional service firms, and industrial companies, with line sizes up to USD $10 million. Insureds taking out this policy will also have access to the organization’s global service providers, its 24/7 crisis management hotline, and specialist cyber support.
“With his wealth of experience, Isaac will help us to identify new territories and geographies to drive profitable growth for the cyber portfolio, with the support of our established cyber underwriting teams in India and Singapore,” said Robbie.

Topics
Cyber
Aon
AIG
