Envelop Risk, the data-driven cyber reinsurance and analytics specialist, announced it has just completed a capacity agreement with MS Reinsurance for a further three years.
Further to that, MS Reinsurance recently became a client of Envelop’s new Solutions Business with a multiyear agreement for analytics services. These agreements reaffirm the long-standing relationship which MS Reinsurance and Envelop have had since 2018.
The company also announced it has reached the milestone of $1 billion GWP since its launch in 2018, during which, it also achieved a compound annual growth rate of 40%.
Envelop said it is now looking to expand into new segments globally, with a view to helping close the global cyber risk protection gap. Particularly as penetration is low – even in highly developed markets such as the U.S., at less than 30%, and many other regions low single digits.
Significant developmental milestones include:
“These are huge milestones for us and I am very grateful to our team, partners and clients who helped us achieve them. Cyberattack is the primary existential risk companies face and a serious threat to individuals,” commented Jonathan Spry, Envelop co-founder and CEO, in a statement.
“By providing the support necessary for cedents to offer protection from that threat sustainably, Envelop has grown from a start-up business in 2016 to a leading cyber reinsurer, analytics provider and capital management specialist, today,” he added. “As we grow globally, we will continue to support the development and resilience of the cyber market and remain dedicated to tackling the underlying protection gap that we are leading the charge in closing.”
Charles Goldie, chief underwriting officer, MS Reinsurance, said: “Having supported Envelop’s substantial growth momentum from day one, I am very pleased to affirm our continued commitment. MS Reinsurance will, as a result, remain a cornerstone in Envelop’s work to support the reinsurance needs of the global cyber insurance market.”
Source: Envelop Risk

Topics
Cyber
Excess Surplus
Reinsurance
Insurance Wholesale
Mississippi
