This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Everest in Europe and CNA Hardy.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Everest Taps BHSI’s d’Huart as Head of France, Charon Named Head of Client Engmt, Europe
Everest announced the appointments of two key leaders in its international insurance operations: François-Xavier d’Huart and Anne Charon.
Everest named d’Huart as head of France and Europe Strategic Projects, effective July 1, pending regulatory approval. d’Huart joins Everest from Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance, where he was most recently head of France and Belgium.
During his 20-plus year career, d’Huart has had extensive experience driving business success and developing talent across cultural boundaries, holding various leadership roles such as head of Broker and Client Management at XL Catlin in France and head of Marine Asia at AXA in Singapore.
d’Huart assumes leadership responsibilities of Everest’s French operations from Anne Charon, most recently head of France, who has been named head of Client Engagement, Europe, for Everest Insurance International.
Since Charon joined Everest in 2022, she has been integral to the company’s expansion into the French market, with a best-in-class team and culture cultivated from her 30-plus years of market leadership. In this newly created role, she will be responsible for overseeing the development and execution of Everest’s client and growth strategies across Continental Europe.
CNA Hardy Promotes Magnus as Active Underwriter for Its Lloyd’s Syndicate, Succeeding Day
CNA Hardy announced the appointment of Clive Magnus as active underwriter for CNA Hardy’s Lloyd’s Syndicate 382, effective July 1, 2024, subject to regulatory approval. He will join CNA Hardy’s senior leadership team with immediate effect.
After nine years with CNA Hardy, Carl Day has tendered his resignation as Active Underwriter of CNA Hardy Syndicate 382, and will be leaving the organization.
Magnus joined CNA Hardy in October 2015 as class manager Upstream Energy and has a proven track record of success within the company, said CNA Hardy in a statement. He has had a distinguished career spanning over 40 years with a broad range of experience in specialist underwriting, underwriting operations roles, including deputy active underwriter and active underwriter, in addition to holding various leadership positions.
“Clive is a hugely respected underwriting leader, and I am delighted to announce his promotion,” said Jalil Rehman, chief executive officer and president, UK and Europe. “His previous experience and outstanding ability to deliver market leading performance made his appointment a very easy choice.”

Topics
Excess Surplus
Europe
Lloyd's
