Aon’s NFP Acquires Irish Human Resources Consultancy and Training Specialist
NFP, the New York City-based brokerage and consulting firm and Aon subsidiary, announced its acquisition of The HR Suite, a leading human resources consultancy and training business with offices across Ireland.
Caroline Reidy, managing director and founder of The HR Suite, will lead NFP’s specialist HR division in Ireland and report to Colm Power, managing director, NFP in Ireland.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
Established in 2009, The HR Suite offers HR system solutions and HR outsourcing services to help large employers, multinational companies and small and medium-sized enterprises improve and streamline their human resources functions.
As the firm’s founder, Caroline Reidy has become a recognized, well-respected author and speaker in the HR space and beyond, said NFP.
“We’re excited to welcome Caroline and The HR Suite team to NFP,” said Matt Pawley, president, NFP in Europe, in a statement. “The team’s undeniable knowledge and expertise, combined with our shared core values and dedication to enhancing client outcomes, provide a solid foundation for many future successes. I can’t think of a better person or group to spearhead our HR division in Ireland and can’t wait to collaborate on delivering exceptional solutions and capabilities to clients.”
With NFP’s global solutions and resources, The HR Suite “can now offer more comprehensive solutions and support to clients in Ireland, including outplacement, employee benefits, pension, and health and safety,” Reidy said.
CoreLogic Acquires Australian Tech Firm Prime Ecosystem
CoreLogic, a specialist in property information, analytics, and data-enabled solutions, announced the acquisition of Prime Ecosystem, a prominent technology firm specializing in construction, restoration, and maintenance management platforms in Australia.
This strategic acquisition aims to extend Prime Ecosystem’s proven contractor technology from Australia to other international markets, starting with the United Kingdom, and further support Prime’s rapid growth in its home markets.
CoreLogic’s extensive history in restoration services and its deep experience in the property insurance market, combined with Prime Ecosystem’s tailored job management system, create a powerful solution focused on helping contractors work more efficiently, grow intelligently, and adapt swiftly to change.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
“With the acquisition of Prime Ecosystem, we are enhancing our international offerings by expanding into the dynamic contractor space. This marks a crucial step in strengthening our capabilities and creating a complete end-to-end value chain,” commented Michael Porter, senior vice president of International Insurance Solutions at Irvine, California-based CoreLogic.
“By integrating Prime’s contractor software into our portfolio, we are streamlining processes and providing a transformative shift in how contractors manage their jobs through a centralized platform. This strategic acquisition emphasizes our commitment to delivering high-quality, innovative solutions that redefine industry standards,” Porter added.
“Our acquisition by CoreLogic represents a significant convergence of cutting-edge technology and industry expertise,” according to Paul Brandis, managing director and co-founder of Prime Ecosystem.
“With features such as document storage, compliance tracking, and real-time communication, our solution provides contractors with the tools they need to succeed in the construction, restoration, and insurance sectors. We take pride in contributing our technical expertise to this acquisition, ensuring a seamless integration that will enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of contractor management for CoreLogic’s clients,” Brandis continued.

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Tech
Aon
Australia
Human Resources
