This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Vantage Group Holdings and AXA XL.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Vantage Promotes Bellitti as Chief Pricing & Portfolio Actuary, BHSI’s Valzania Named CUO
Vantage Group Holdings Ltd. announced the appointment of Kelly Bellitti as chief pricing and portfolio actuary and David Valzania as chief underwriting officer, effective immediately. Valzania joins Bellitti on Vantage’s Insurance leadership team, and both will report to Alex Blanco, insurance chief executive.
In her expanded role, Bellitti will have strategic oversight of Vantage’s insurance portfolio management and continue to lead its insurance pricing actuary team. She will strengthen portfolio underwriting strategies in conjunction with underwriting leaders and in alignment with business goals. Working closely with the company’s Data, Analytics and Technology team, Bellitti will drive data-empowered underwriting and portfolio management.
Bellitti joined Vantage as senior vice president, chief pricing actuary of insurance in 2021. She previously held multiple leadership roles at AXA XL, most recently as global head of financial lines and cyber pricing. Bellitti began her career at Transatlantic Reinsurance and Guy Carpenter. She is a fellow of the Casualty Actuarial Society and a member of the American Academy of Actuaries.
In his role, Valzania will ensure the overall alignment of Vantage’s insurance and underwriting strategies. He will work closely with the group’s insurance leadership to support efficiencies and profitability and lead underwriting policy making, standards and governance.
Valzania joins Vantage from Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance where he was senior vice president of Multinational. Before Berkshire, Valzania was at AIG, where he held several senior management roles, including president and CEO of the company’s Bermuda division. Before AIG, he was a senior vice president at Marsh.
“I am thrilled to welcome David to our team, alongside Kelly and our capable insurance leaders. David’s and Kelly’s extensive experience and proven track records will be instrumental in driving Vantage’s ten specialty insurance businesses to continue to grow and succeed. Both Kelly’s and David’s roles are aligned with further building our sustained profitability,” said Blanco.
“Kelly’s broader responsibilities reflect her accomplishments and ability to make a larger impact. Combined with David’s underwriting expertise, they will be a powerful force in achieving our strategic goals.” Blanco added.
AXA XL Promotes Bailey as Head of Professional, Bermuda
AXA XL has appointed Bermudian Michelle Bailey to the new role of head of Professional, Bermuda.
Bailey, who reports to Noel Pearman, chief underwriting officer, Bermuda, of AXA XL’s Insurance business, has more than 20 years of industry experience.
In the new role, she is responsible for leading the Bermuda professional lines underwriting team, including directors & officers, employment practices liability (EPL), wage & hour (W&H), errors & omissions (E&O), and cyber lines of business. Her responsibilities also include developing and effectively managing client relationships across all lines and overseeing the execution of strategy to drive profitable growth.
Prior to taking on the new role, Bailey was senior vice president, product line leader for both the EPL and W&H coverage lines.
Bailey holds dual Bachelor of Arts in Risk Management and Finance degrees from Temple University and has earned both a Registered Professional Liability Underwriter (RPLU) designation and an Associate in Insurance Data Analytics (AIDA) designation. She is a recognized thought leader in her field, frequently speaking at various international industry events, including the recent PLUS NY conference. Beyond her professional commitments, she contributes to the industry as a board member of the Bermuda Foundation for Insurance Studies.
“We are pleased and proud to have Michelle step into this new role. She is well respected within the Bermuda market and beyond for her extensive expertise in underwriting, focusing on a diverse portfolio primarily for Fortune 500 clients,” commented Pearman.
“Michelle and her team play an instrumental role in AXA XL’s commitment to address the existing and future risk management needs of our large commercial clients.”

Topics
AXA XL
