The Retail International division of the Talanx Group is selling its Ecuadorian entity HDI Seguros S.A. to Grupo Financiero Atlántida, a financial conglomerate from Honduras.
The sale enables the Retail International division to consolidate its portfolio in Latin America and focus on its largest operations in the region.
The transaction is expected to close in 2025 and is subject to approval by the relevant supervisory authorities. The parties have agreed not to disclose details of the selling price.
HDI Seguros Ecuador generated a gross premium volume of US$36 million (€35 million) with 141 employees in 2024. HDI International AG acquired the company from Liberty Seguros in 2024 as part of a larger transaction in which it also bought entities in Brazil, Chile and Colombia with a total gross premium volume of around €2 billion (2023).
About Talanx
Talanx is a major European insurance group with insurance revenue of around €43.2 billion in 2023 and roughly 28,000 employees worldwide. Based in Hannover, Germany, the group is active in more than 175 countries. Talanx’s corporate insurance and retail business in Germany and abroad is operated under the HDI brand. Other group brands include the reinsurer Hannover Re; the bancassurance specialists TARGO, LifeStyle Protection and neue leben; and Polish insurer Warta. Ampega, one of Germany’s larger asset management companies, manages the Talanx Group’s assets and is a provider of asset management solutions for non-group institutional investors.
Source: Talanx

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
