Asta, the third-party managing agent at Lloyd’s, and Acrisure announced that Lloyd’s has granted “in principle” approval for the launch of Flux Syndicate 1985, which will commence underwriting on Jan. 1, 2023.
Flux is expected to generate gross written premium of £106.7 million (US$123.9 million) in 2023, of which 70% is new to Lloyd’s.
The Flux low-touch underwriting model will take the best Lloyd’s products to new buyers through Acrisure’s tech-driven retail distribution systems, while expanding consortia opportunities for other Lloyd’s syndicates by easing access to the Acrisure retail network.
“The global insurance market is experiencing a growing convergence between underwriting, distribution, and capital. The Flux syndicate offers investors access to high-quality risk from multiple sources via the most direct route possible. We looked at Lloyd’s efforts to make the market more accessible, and easy to use, and we like what we have seen,” commented Grahame Millwater, Acrisure’s president of global insurance.
“With the help of Asta, we’ve created a leading-edge business model which will harness those facilities to the benefit of everyone in the chain, from the insured customer all the way to the ultimate capital provider,” Millwater said.
“The Flux opportunity has considerable potential to attract accretive business into Lloyd’s. Of about $32 billion in premium currently managed by Acrisure, only about $400 million currently flows into Lloyd’s,” according to Asta chief executive officer, Lorraine Harfitt.
“The launch of Flux stands to increase that ratio dramatically and bring a large volume of new risk and premium into the market. It will accrue not just to Flux, but to other syndicates as well and will also provide additional opportunities for third-party capital,” added Harfitt.
“We’re proud to provide third party syndicate management to this exciting venture, which constitutes a ringing endorsement of Lloyd’s initiatives to make the market more attractive to high-quality, low-expense, entrepreneurial insurance players seeking an efficient platform for growth,” commented Asta Chief Executive Officer Lorraine Harfitt.
Source: Asta and Acrisure
Related:

Topics
Excess Surplus
Lloyd's
