Casper Specialty UK Ltd., the casualty-focused MGA and independent sister company to the broker Miller, announced it had secured two new capacity providers, as it enters its second year of trading.
Chaucer and TMK have joined Argenta to provide additional capacity. Over the past 12 months, Casper has seen significant expansion, including opening a new office, adding headcount and obtaining a license to expand in Europe, through a presence in Germany. (Casper writes its US-originated business via the London market).
Casper underwrites a broad range of financial institutions and professional lines, and aims to lead on business it writes and expects to bring in further new underwriters looking to become part of a more entrepreneurial environment.
“I’m proud of the success we’ve achieved with Casper over its first year and look forward to continuing on our growth journey with the support of our high-quality capacity partners,” commented Bradley Knight, CEO of Casper, in a statement.
“Our experienced team of market-leading underwriters is allowing us to skillfully manage an evolving casualty market, and we see real opportunity to deliver attractive returns through our differentiated underwriting approach,” Knight added.
“The three capacity providers now behind us are a strong demonstration of confidence in the team here, and we look forward to bolstering it by adding more talented underwriters who are attracted by what we are building,” he said.
About Casper
Established in 2023 and headquartered in London, Casper operates across the UK and internationally. The word “Casper” means “treasurer” in Aramaic and other languages.
Source: Casper Specialty

Topics
Insurance Wholesale
Casualty
