Jensten, the London-based independent insurance broking and underwriting group, announced a reorganization that aims to drive growth, bolster continued acquisitions, and expedite the integration of future acquisitions.
This move closely follows the recent announcement of Jensten’s successful securing of £170 million in fundraising, solidifying the firm’s commitment to advancing its growth plans throughout 2024 and beyond.
Jensten’s is splitting its Wholesale division, with the Jensten London Market business unit reporting to the core broking trading division under Rob Organ. David Skinner, managing director of Berns Brett (acquired by Jensten in October 2023) and Jensten’s London and South-East region, will assume oversight of the London Markets division.
The group’s MGA operation, Jensten Underwriting, will now operate as a standalone business unit, ultimately reporting to Alistair Hardie, group chief executive.
Rob Palmer, formerly the franchise director of Jensten’s rapidly expanding franchise and network division, will transition to the role of director of Distribution, also reporting to Rob Organ. In this capacity, he will spearhead the promotion of all Jensten’s services – including network, Wholesale Broking, and MGA products – to both internal and external markets.
These changes highlight Jensten’s commitment to continuous expansion, ensuring that it is strategically positioned to seize future opportunities and deliver outstanding value to its clients in the ever-evolving insurance landscape, the company said in a statement.
“Over the past five years, we’ve transformed the MGA into a significant platform, and now it’s time to push for a step change in growth,” commented Alistair Hardie, group chief executive, Jensten Group.
“Our ambition is to triple the premium managed by Jensten Underwriting within the next four years. Rob has excelled as franchise director with the network achieving record-breaking premiums in 2024 and experiencing the highest influx of new members since its inception in 1986. I have the utmost confidence in Rob’s ability to excel in his new role,” Hardie added.
As a result of these changes, Simon Taylor, managing director, Wholesale, will be leaving the business with immediate effect.
“Simon has been instrumental in establishing our London Markets and MGA capabilities, and I would like to thank him for his contribution,” Hardie added.
Source: Jensten Group

Topics
Underwriting
