This edition of International People Moves details appointments at AXA XL Bermuda, the tech risk platform Intangic, and the Lloyd’s insurer Dale Underwriting Partners.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
AXA XL Promotes Flanagan to Head of P&C Bermuda
AXA XL announced that Mark Flanagan has been appointed to the new role of head of Property & Casualty, Bermuda.
Flanagan, who reports to Noel Pearman, chief underwriting officer, Bermuda within AXA XL’s Insurance business, has more than 20 years of underwriting experience, including the past 12 years with AXA XL.
In the new role, his responsibilities include leading the Bermuda P&C underwriting team with a focus on growing the property line of business as well as developing and managing client relationships across both lines of business. In addition, he will lead a client-centric approach in providing consistent, innovative and customized solutions.
Flanagan was formerly senior vice president, chief property underwriter/head of Property Bermuda at AXA XL.
He holds a Master of Arts in Economics and Accounting from the University of Edinburgh in Scotland, a Master of Science in Energy & Fire Safety Engineering from Heriot Watt University in Edinburgh, and a Master of Business Administration in Strategic Risk Management from Edinburgh Business School. He received the FCII: Fellow & Chartered Insurer designation from the Chartered Insurance Institute in London, UK.
The Bermuda Property & Casualty leadership team members reporting to Flanagan are:
Intangic Names Cryer as Director of Client Solutions
Intangic, the Luxembourg-based technology risk platform, announced the appointment of Joshua Cryer as director of Client Solutions.
Cryer brings over a decade of experience to the role. Prior to joining Intangic, he served as director of Risk and Insurance at THG (formerly The Hut Group) and Virgin Atlantic, where he was responsible for both enterprise risk and insurance. He started his career as an insurance broker servicing and managing large complex clients at Willis Towers Watson and Gallagher.
In his role, Cryer is responsible for Intangic’s client solutions, reporting to Ryan Dodd, founder and chief executive officer. His experience will allow Intangic to continue to develop its proprietary client solutions that bring a new approach to helping large complex organizations identify, manage and mitigate technology risk.
“Based on my regular interaction with both risk / insurance directors, and internal security teams, it was clear that the market needed alternative approaches to both the understanding and transfer of a dynamic risk like cyber,” said Cryer.
“When I first met the Intangic team a year ago, I was impressed by their cyber expertise and risk management platform, which was totally different to anything I had seen in the insurance market. I am genuinely excited about the prospect of working with Intangic, collaborating with clients and demonstrating how the CyFi™ Platform not only helps organisations avoid cyber losses, but achieve better financial outcomes in the re/insurance market,” he said.
The Intangic CyFi™ Platform allows clearer visibility and better control of cyber exposure and the subsequent financial impact on the business, the company said.
“Josh has a strong track record of devising, managing and implementing complex, successful global insurance programmes making him well suited to the role of Director of Client Solutions,” said Dodd. “He knows from a risk manager’s perspective how important it is to bring differentiated, actionable intelligence to risk/insurance directors and CISOs to actively manage cyber risk.”
Dale Underwriting Names Daniel as Head of Global Property Reinsurance
Dale Underwriting Partners, the trading name for Dale Managing Agency Ltd.’s Lloyd’s Syndicate 1729, announced the appointment of Paul Daniel as head of Global Property Reinsurance, effective Oct. 28, 2024.
Based in London, Daniel will be responsible for leading Dale’s global property reinsurance business and will report to Ian Bridge, active underwriter.
Daniel joins Dale from Berkley Re, where he was head of International Short Tail Treaty. He brings with him over 30 years of experience within the industry, starting his career with G.E. Oatley in 1989 and moving to J H Venton Syndicate in 1994, where he worked as an assistant underwriter on the treaty and DF property accounts.
He went on to join Talbot Underwriting in 2001 where he spent 22 years underwriting Property Treaty and purchasing the syndicate retro protection, with the last seven years serving as Head of Treaty responsible for Property, Aviation and Specialty.
“We are thrilled to welcome Paul to Dale,” said Bridge. “His wealth of experience in successfully navigating the reinsurance cycle with sustained top tier profits will help to further enhance our lead capabilities within the Treaty team and position us strongly to build our broker and client proposition to grow this portfolio in line with our strategy.”
Dale Underwriting Partners began trading from Jan. 1, 2014 with the formation of Lloyd’s Syndicate 1729. The syndicate underwrites property re/insurance, casualty, healthcare liability, specialty, marine reinsurance and energy. In 2021, it announced a new joint venture, Dale DUAL MGU Ltd. In 2022, Dale was given authorization to establish its managing agency at Lloyd’s, Dale Managing Agency Ltd.

Topics
Reinsurance
Property
Property Casualty
AXA XL
