Warnings that pro-Russian ransomware gangs would snarl networks in Ukraine and its allies have so far failed to materialize amid disarray among the criminal underworld often behind such attacks and fears insurers would not pay out.
Conti, one of the most notorious Russia-based cybercrime groups known for using ransomware to extort millions of dollars from U.S. and European companies, announced its “full support” for the government of President Vladimir Putin last week – a position it later walked back as they themselves became victims of a leak.
“We do not ally with any government and we condemn the ongoing war,” the group said in a later statement on its website.
Hours later, a Twitter account called “ContiLeaks” appeared, and published what it said was internal chat records from the criminal group.
The secret chats were leaked by a Ukrainian cybersecurity researcher, according to Vitali Kremez, the chief executive of Florida-based cybersecurity firm AdvIntel, and Alex Holden, the founder of Wisconsin-based Hold Security. Reuters could not independently verify the authenticity of the material.
Kremez and Holden said they were both in touch with the researcher but that he did not wish to speak to the media because he was still in Ukraine.
According to Kremez, the researcher had access to the logs for some time but the trigger for going public was Conti’s decision to swear allegiance to Moscow as Russian forces invaded Ukraine.
“He was offended by what they said,” he told Reuters.
In the months leading up to Putin’s invasion of Ukraine, Western intelligence agencies warned of chaos caused by a destructive “spillover” of any potential Russian cyberattacks on Ukraine’s national infrastructure. Insurance policies typically have exclusions for what is described as a “force majeure event” – such as an act of war.