This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Liberty Mutual Reinsurance and Marsh.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
LM Re Taps Vantage Risk’s Sweeney as Specialty Casualty Underwriting Manager
Liberty Mutual Reinsurance (LM Re), part of Liberty Mutual Insurance Group, announced the appointment of Cara Sweeney as specialty casualty underwriting manager.
Sweeney reports to Chantal Rodriguez, chief underwriting Officer, LM Re and is based in Stamford, Conn.
Sweeney will oversee the underwriting strategy and performance of LM Re’s US Specialty Casualty portfolio. In her new role, she will continue to develop risk assessments for complex financial institutions requiring D&O and E&O insurance, including those in private equity, venture capital, hedge funds, banking and insurance sectors.
Sweeney has extensive insurance experience with her most recent role as VP at Vantage Risk where she was a part of an underwriting team responsible for the US Financial Lines business. She brings more than 16 years’ industry experience to the role and her primary expertise is an excellent complement to the existing team’s strong reinsurance expertise.
Liberty Mutual Reinsurance offers treaty reinsurance solutions across key UK, Europe, Middle East, Asia, US, Bermuda and other international locations. It provides brokers and cedents with property, casualty and specialty reinsurance solutions through both the company and Lloyd’s markets and have more than 200 employees dedicated to treaty reinsurance in 18 offices globally.
Marsh Promotes Thomas-Ferrand to Head of Captive Insurance as Charnley Retires
Marsh, the insurance brokerage business of Marsh McLennan, announced that Will Thomas-Ferrand, international practice leader, Marsh Captive Solutions, will assume leadership of Marsh’s captive insurance business on Jan. 1, 2025.
In this role, Thomas-Ferrand will report to Pat Donnelly, president, Marsh Specialty and Global Placement and remain based in London.
Ellen Charnley, president of Marsh Captive Solutions, will retire at the end of 2024.
A 20-year veteran of the firm, Thomas-Ferrand has held various roles of responsibility within Marsh’s captive business. Prior to being named to his current role, he led Marsh’s captive business in Malta and previously spent seven years largely working with US clients in Bermuda.
“The evolution of the global captive insurance industry continues to gather pace as more organizations turn to captives to address emerging risks such as climate change and cybersecurity,” commented Thomas-Ferrand. “Once the preserve of large multinational corporations, smaller organizations are also now benefitting from flexible captive solutions to support their growth strategies.”

Topics
Excess Surplus
Underwriting
Casualty
