Specialty reinsurer BMS Re announced the appointment of Anthony Mirabal as CEO of the Latin America and Caribbean (LAC) Division, effective November 2024.
Mirabal has more than 30 years of experience in reinsurance, first as a casualty underwriter with Gen Re, and then in underwriting, production and management roles with a number of prominent reinsurance businesses in the region such as ERC and EWB before successfully developing his own reinsurance intermediary (RRISC) based in Miami in 2001 – a business subsequently acquired by JLTRe in 2016, which lead to his recent 6-year tenure at Guy Carpenter since the acquisition of the JLT Group in 2018 by MMC.
Mirabal will report to Nick Gillett, CEO of BMS International, and will continue to be based in Miami. He will work closely with Juan Carlos Gomez, who will become president of Latin America and Caribbean; and will continue to play a pivotal role in helping shape the regional strategy and supporting local offices.
New Appointments in Zurich Asia Pacific’s Commercial Insurance Unit
Zurich Insurance Company (Singapore) Ltd. announced key leadership appointments to its Asia Pacific Commercial Insurance business. Based in Singapore, Robin Cooper-Driver has been appointed head of financial lines, Asia Pacific, and Edward Rayfield will join Zurich as head of casualty, Asia Pacific.
Cooper-Driver and Rayfield will oversee the performance and growth of Zurich’s financial lines and casualty portfolios across the Asia Pacific and work closely with in-country teams to support and develop underwriting capabilities and execute on strategic priorities.
With over two decades of experience, including 13 years with Zurich, Cooper-Driver most recently served as head of long tail lines Australia and New Zealand and head of financial lines Asia Pacific (based in Australia). Prior to this, he held various underwriting and portfolio leadership positions with Zurich Australia.
Rayfield joins Zurich from AIG where he was most recently head of casualty, Singapore & Major Accounts Asia. With over 14 years of experience, Rayfield also brings specialized technical and distribution expertise spanning the London, Australia and Asia Casualty markets.

Topics
Casualty
