Global natural catastrophes cost insurers $17 billion during the first quarter of 2024 with economic losses rising above $45 billion, according to Aon’s Q1 Global Catastrophe Recap – April 2024.
Q1 natural disaster losses were driven by severe convective and winter storms in the United States, as well as windstorms and flooding in Europe, and the earthquake in Japan, the Aon report said.
The global insured losses of $17 billion during Q1 were close to the average since 2000 ($16 billion) and higher than the median of $12 billion for that period. However, Aon said, it is a significant drop from the “exceptional losses” seen in Q1 of 2023 ($30 billion), driven by elevated severe convective storm activity (SCS) in the United States.
Global Insured Natural Disaster Claims Again Dominated by Severe US Storms: Gallagher
This year’s global insured losses were once again driven by SCS and winter weather events in the United States, said the report, noting that disaster events in the US accounted for roughly three-quarters of global insured losses in Q1- Q3 of 2023, or more than $13 billion.
Insured losses from SCS, winter weather and flooding across the US in Q1 2024 were preliminarily estimated at nearly $13 billion, well above the 21st -century average of nearly $7 billion, the report said. “Both figures are significantly less compared to Q1 insured losses from last year (above $19 billion), which featured several costly SCS events.”
Similar to 2023, the costliest Q1 2024 insured loss event in the U.S. also came from a severe weather event when large hail and multiple violent tornadoes hit the south-central Great Plains to Ohio during the period March 12 – March 16, said Aon, noting that these weather events could cost insurers approximately $3.4 billion.
Economic losses of $45 billion, were lower than the 21st-century Q1 average of $59 billion and significantly lower than losses of $149 billion reported during Q1 2023. (Economic losses include insured and uninsured losses).
The costliest event of the first quarter – from an economic loss perspective – was the Noto Earthquake in Japan, which had an economic price tag of $17.6 billion, said the report, quoting preliminary government estimates. Aon said insured losses from the earthquake, which occurred on Jan. 1, could top $1 billion.
Despite the economic losses from the quake, Aon said, winter storms drove insured losses due to the higher levels of insurance coverage for such events, particularly in the United States.
At least four events during the quarter topped $1 billion in insured losses, while there were 12 billion-dollar events included in the category of economic losses. Eight of those events occurred in the US, two in South America and two in Asia.
Additional findings from the report include:
Photograph: The remains of mobile homes are visible following a severe storm on Friday, March 15, 2024, in Lakeview, Ohio. (AP Photo/Joshua A. Bickel)

Topics
Natural Disasters
Profit Loss
Windstorm
Aon
