MS Amlin Appoints TMK’s Evans as Senior Underwriter, Marine Reinsurance
MS Amlin Underwriting Ltd., the Lloyd’s market re/insurer, announced the appointment of Paul Evans as senior underwriter Marine Reinsurance. Evans will take up the role on Nov. 1 and will report to Malcolm Barnes, head of Marine Reinsurance.
A seasoned treaty reinsurance underwriter, Evans brings almost two decades of reinsurance market experience to MS Amlin. He joins from Tokio Marine Kiln, where he most recently held the role of reinsurance underwriter, working on a broad and complex treaty portfolio. Evans was also deputy chair of the Lloyd’s Market Association Property Reinsurance Panel.
This appointment further strengthens MS Amlin’s Reinsurance proposition and follows the recent hires of Grant Baxter, head of Reinsurance and Deputy CUO, and Malcolm Barnes, head of Marine Reinsurance.
WTW Global Aerospace Heath Names PIIQ’s Heath to Lead Aerospace
WTW Global Aerospace announced that Oyin Heath has been appointed managing director in the newly created role of global head of Aerospace line of business, reporting directly to John Rooley, CEO Global Aerospace.
Joining WTW from PIIQ Risk Partners, Heath was also previously at Marsh Ltd. where she led the UK Aerospace team. Heath has a considerable track record of leadership in this sector, demonstrating strong technical knowledge and excellent market relationships.
Heath will be focused on driving growth and continuing to bring innovative, market leading solutions and best in class service to the aerospace industry.
“WTW has embarked on a strong growth trajectory in Aerospace, with clients attracted to our client engagement principles, technical prowess and data and analytical skills. This allows us to develop class leading strategies for our customers backed up with data and science and developing and enhancing our team in this sector is an important part of our long term growth objectives,” commented John Rooley, global head of Aerospace, WTW.
“I’m delighted to attract someone of the pedigree and calibre of Oyin and look forward to welcoming her to our global leadership team,” he added.
WTW Global Aerospace is a leading provider of insurance brokerage and risk management services for the aviation Industry, organized around the key industry demarcations with five lines of business (LOBs): airlines, lessors & financiers, general aviation, inspace and aerospace. Aerospace includes manufacturers, airports, ANSPs, MROs, suppliers and aviation service providers.

Topics
Underwriting
Reinsurance
Mississippi
Aerospace
Willis Towers Watson
