This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Swiss Re and MNK Re.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Malmström Named Swiss Re’s Group CFO as Dacey Retires
Swiss Re announced that Anders Malmström will succeed John Dacey as group chief financial officer as of April 1, 2025.
Malmström will join Swiss Re in early 2025 from Athora Holdings, a leading European savings and retirement services group, where he has served as group chief financial officer since May 2021. Prior to Athora, he was senior executive vice president and CFO of Equitable Holdings in New York. Before that, he was senior executive director and CFO at AXA US, member of the executive board and head of the Life business at AXA Winterthur and held senior leadership roles at Swiss Life Group.
Malmström is a graduate from the Stanford Executive Program, holds a PhD in Mathematics from the University of Aachen in Germany and a master’s degree in Mathematics, Physics and Astronomy from the University of Basel.
While Dacey will retire from his executive role on March 31, 2025, he will continue to represent Swiss Re as a non-executive director on the boards of FWD and CPIC.
“We are pleased to have found a seasoned leader, with deep expertise in finance and the insurance industry, in Anders Malmström. We are convinced that he is the right person to take the Finance function forward after an orderly transition,” commented Swiss Re’s Chairman Jacques de Vaucleroy.
“While it is too early to say goodbye to John Dacey, I would like to take this opportunity to thank him on behalf of the entire Board of Directors for his outstanding contributions to Swiss Re over the past 12 years,” de Vaucleroy continued.
“Among his many achievements are the development of the Finance function into a more efficient and aligned organisation across the Group’s businesses and the successful implementation of Swiss Re’s transition to the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).”
MNK Re Appoints Industry Veteran Ashby as Global Chief Commercial Officer
MNK Re, the London-based independent broker of specialist risks into Lloyd’s, has appointed Simon Ashby as executive managing director and global chief commercial officer.
Ashby has nearly 40 years’ experience in the insurance and reinsurance sectors, having held senior management roles in both broking and underwriting, including over a decade in Bermuda as managing director of Marsh FINPRO Bermuda.
In London, Ashby was managing director and CUO of Gulf Insurance Company UK Ltd. (part of the Travelers Group) and CEO of Willis Global Solutions International. In his most recent role, Ashby was co-founder and active underwriter of Verto Lloyds Syndicate 2689.
In his new role, Ashby will be responsible for driving a variety of projects and revenue growth initiatives for MNK Re, as it looks to expand its presence across the globe, particularly in North America.
Established in 2009, MNK Re is a registered Lloyd’s broker with offices in London, South Africa, Miami, Dubai, Kenya and Poland. MNK Re currently trades with clients in more than 80 countries and provides bespoke re/insurance solutions for both traditional as well as emerging risks.

Topics
Commercial Lines
Swiss Re
