This edition of International People Moves details appointments at AXA XL Reinsurance and Fusion Specialty.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
AXA XL Reinsurance Names Sawyer to Expanded Role of Head of London Casualty, Reinsurance
AXA XL Reinsurance announced it has appointed Ian Sawyer to the newly expanded role of head of London Casualty, Reinsurance, with immediate effect.
Sawyer will be responsible for both the US and International Casualty Treaty propositions in London and will oversee AXA XL’s Cyber Reinsurance offering internationally.
Sawyer brings more than 37 years’ experience to the business having re-joined AXA XL in 2022 after previously working with the business as head of Casualty five years earlier.
His career includes experience as head of Global Casualty, covering US and International Casualty business written in London and domestically within the US, and time spent as a US casualty treaty claims broker.
Fusion Specialty Hires 2 for M&A Team in London
Fusion Specialty, the Sydney-based MGA platform within Pop Group Holdings (POP), announced the appointment of two additional members to its Mergers and Acquisitions (M&A) team in London: Alexander (Alex) Mackay joins Fusion UK as a partner and Tom Hopkins joins as an associate, driving the further development of broker relationships and expanding Fusion UK’s underwriting capability.
Mackay joins Fusion after having spent some five years working in M&A insurance with a number of leading insurance companies in the London market. During his time with these companies, he was also responsible for developing key broker relationships within the London market and across international markets, on which he will capitalise in this new role at Fusion.
Hopkins joins Fusion from a legal background, having worked in several top firms, most recently with international law firm Orrick, Herrington and Sutcliffe in its venture capital practice.
Mackay and Hopkins join Samuel Shirley, Fusion managing partner, UK M&A, and both will be working closely with Fusion’s London-based team of M&A underwriters.
In announcing the new appointments, Shirley said: “We are delighted to welcome Alex and Tom to Fusion as we continue to expand our footprint in the specialty M&A insurance sector both here in the UK as well as in our other key markets in the US, Europe, Australia and Asia.”
“Alex and Tom are joining us at an exciting time and will be integral in helping us drive Fusion’s future success and further solidify our position as a market leader in the transactional liability insurance sector globally,” according to Katherine Simmonds, CEO, Fusion International.

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Excess Surplus
Reinsurance
London
Casualty
AXA XL
