Jensten is set to further scale its scheme and affinities business with the acquisition of UK broker Robert Gerrard & Co.
The deal, which is subject to regulatory approval, will introduce a dedicated team of 19 professionals and an office located in Chingford, England to the business. Financial details were not provided.
Robert Gerrard & Co is the leading UK insurance broker that specializes in the lift and escalator industry. Offering an extensive range of tailored policies, including its “Lift Plan” product, Robert Gerrard & Co. provides comprehensive coverage unmatched in the lift and escalator industry, Jensten noted.
In addition to its lift and escalator expertise, Robert Gerrard & Co. also provides tailored commercial services to clients across various industries, as well as select personal lines products in the Chingford area.
Managing Director Carla Preston will continue to lead the business, reporting to Simon Henderson, managing director – Schemes and Affinities at Jensten Insurance Brokers.
“We wanted to partner with a company that recognized the value of our specialties, staff, and expertise. We also wanted to maintain our momentum in growing the business while consistently serving our clients and partners,” commented Preston.
“Jensten was the perfect fit for us, offering the support and resources necessary for our continued growth. We are excited for the future and the prospects that this partnership will deliver, for our team, for our clients and for Jensten,” Preston added.
Building on Jensten’s strong momentum in 2024, this follows earlier announcements regarding the acquisitions of Melville Burbage and Henry Seymour & Co, alongside a £170 million investment in new funding facilities. This most recent announcement demonstrates Jensten’s continued dedication to expanding and scaling its business.
“The success we’ve seen in the first part of 2024 demonstrates the value of the proposition and platform Jensten has meticulously built over the last three years, bringing us significantly closer to reaching £1 billion in premium within our group,” according to Alistair Hardie, chief executive of Jensten.
“This acquisition represents another significant milestone in the growth of our schemes and affinities business. At Jensten, our goal is to deliver the best solutions for our clients by understanding their specialist needs,” said Henderson.
Source: Jensten

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
