This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI), Ardonagh Specialty, and Lockton Re.
A summary of these new hires and promotions follows here.
BHSI Taps Holding From Aviva to Lead UK Marine
Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI) announced it has appointed Nick Holding to lead the growth of its marine portfolio as head of Marine, UK.
Holding comes to BHSI with 35 years of marine insurance experience and has led underwriting teams within Lloyd’s and the company markets for the majority of his career.
Holding joins BHSI from Aviva as head of Marine at the company’s Lloyd’s operations, according to his LinkedIn profile. Previously, he was class underwriter, Cargo, at the Standard Syndicate. Prior to that, he was an underwriter at FM GlobalCargo. He also has held roles at Marsh Marine & Energy and CNA Insurance, his profile said.
“I am pleased to welcome Nick to lead our team of excellent marine underwriters and our ongoing expansion in this market,” said Nick Major, country head, BHSI UK. “He will oversee our underwriting of complex marine accounts as well as the superior service we provide to our customers and brokers.”
He is based in London and can be reached at Nick.Holding@bhspecialty.com.
In the UK, BHSI provides a full range of coverages for marine cargo, marine equipment, and subsea risks.
Ardonagh Specialty Names Goldenberg as Global Commercial Dir.
Ardonagh Specialty, the independent specialty broker that is part of Ardonagh Group, has appointed Amy Goldenberg to the newly created position of global commercial director.
Goldenberg will be responsible for business development, focussing on organic growth and cross-selling initiatives, and creating an international key account strategy for new business production and major client retention.
She joins from Gallagher Specialty, where she established a business development function and led bid, marketing, sales and research teams to support six major divisions, including aerospace, marine, construction, energy and renewables, financial risks and property/casualty. Before that she spent a decade at JLT Specialty in various roles, including head of Global Mining and senior consultant in its Credit, Political and Security Risk division.
Based in London, Goldenberg will report to Chief Investment Officer Nabila Leather.
“At Ardonagh Specialty we have ambitious growth plans, and Amy will be a key player in helping us achieve them. She brings with her a wealth of experience not just in business development and strategy but in change management, people management and frontline trading – with technical knowledge across a real mix of London market products,” commented Leather.
“She understands exactly how a business development function should be structured to maximise impact, and she’s the perfect person to help us clarify our offering, solidify our operations, and promote our services as a credible, agile and responsive alternative to other big-listed brokerages.”
London-based Ardonagh Specialty is the holding company for independent brokers Bishopsgate, Inver Re and Price Forbes. Combined, it has 1400 colleagues globally and manages over $7 billion in gross written premium.
Lockton Re Appoints Yeo and Terry to Cyber Team
Lockton Re, the reinsurance business of the world’s largest privately held independent insurance broker, announced that Jacqueline Yeo has joined as cyber analytics lead and Annie Terry has joined as a broker, dedicated to cyber risk. Both will be based in Lockton Re’s London office.
Yeo brings over 25 years’ experience in the London market. She has been an independent exposure management professional for over 10 years, working with companies such as Lloyd’s of London, MS Amlin, Arch and RMS. She has undertaken cyber model validation and reviews.
Yeo has a Master of Science in Information Security and also spent time working with the City of London Police as a cyber project officer so brings a very diverse perspective to the role. Terry joins from Aon where she was a cyber, media and technology placement broker. Prior to that, she also spent time at Marsh.
“Jacqueline and Annie are great additions to our expanding Cyber team. We see a growing demand from clients for our cyber expertise across the globe. Jacqueline’s role is new and reflects the complexity and continued need to innovate in cyber analytics,” commented Oli Brew, cyber practice leader, London, Lockton Re.
“Cyber is the fastest growing commercial line of insurance and as we go into a new year Lockton Re is focused on ensuring we have the right people, expertise and technology in place for our clients and markets,” Brew added.

Topics
Cyber
Commercial Lines
Excess Surplus
