Specialist Risk Group (SRG), the London-based insurance intermediary, has acquired Cheshire Insurance Brokers (CIB).
Financial details of the transaction were not disclosed.
Established in 2010 by Dominic Leach & Victoria Benito and based in Hale, England, CIB specializes in arranging tailored insurance programs and provides insurance solutions to recruitment agencies throughout the world. It also works with commercial and professional businesses and high net worth clients in the UK.
The addition of CIB further strengthens SRG’s retail pillar (Specialist Risk Insurance Solutions) offering for corporate and private clients.
This strategic move marks SRG’s fifth acquisition of the year, underpinning the company’s commitment to expanding its portfolio and expertise across specialist sectors.
“As soon as I met Dominic, I knew that him and his team would thrive as part of the SRG team. Therefore, I am delighted to welcome Cheshire Insurance Brokers to SRG. This acquisition reinforces our commitment to investing in specialist areas and expanding our capabilities in the retail pillar of our business,” commented Lee Anderson, deputy CEO of SRG.
“SRIS has made significant strides in recent years, and with the addition of CIB, we aim to build on this success and continue delivering an outstanding Retail offering to our clients and partners,” Anderson added.
“Joining forces with SRG is an exciting opportunity for the clients of Cheshire Insurance Brokers. We look forward to leveraging our specialist expertise combined with SRG’s resources and network, to continue to provide an outstanding offering and service to our clients,” according to Dominic Leach, managing director of Cheshire Insurance Brokers.
Source: Specialist Risk Group (SRG)

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
