This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Marsh, Lockton and MS Amlin.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Marsh Names Thurston CEO, UK Risk Mgmt, Mistry as CEO of FINPRO
Marsh, the insurance broker and risk adviser and a business of Marsh McLennan, announced the appointments of Beth Thurston as CEO of UK Risk Management, and Hema Mistry as CEO of the UK Financial and Professional (FINPRO) business.
Based in London, both appointments are effective on Jan. 1. Thurston will report to Nick Harris, CEO of Retail, Marsh UK, and Mistry will report to Dominic Samengo-Turner, CEO, UK, Marsh Specialty.
Marsh’s UK Risk Management client segment focuses on serving the needs of Marsh’s largest and most complex clients. In her role as CEO, Thurston will have overall responsibility for the strategic management and implementation of services and solutions that support these clients in managing their risk and insurance programs.
Thurston has worked for Marsh for 14 years and is currently CEO of UK FINPRO. A solicitor of the Supreme Court of England and Wales before joining Marsh, Thurston was an “of counsel” in a city law firm where she specialized in insurance and reinsurance litigation for more than 14 years. She succeeds Ailsa King, who was announced as chief commercial officer, Marsh McLennan UK, on Sept. 6, 2023.
Mistry, who will succeed Thurston as CEO of UK FINPRO, will be responsible for managing the management liability, financial services, professional indemnity, healthcare and specie practices.
Mistry returns to the UK from San Francisco, where she was the West Zone FINPRO leader for four years. Mistry joined Marsh in 2010 as a management liability wholesale team leader in London and has extensive international experience in developing services and solutions for professional risks.
Lockton Hires Parle, Patrick and McKay in London
Lockton, an independent insurance broker, announced the appointment of Lewis Parle, Laura Patrick, and Lauren McKay, all with immediate effect.
Parle, who will lead client solutions in Intellectual Property Risk, joins from Icen Risk, where he led a transactional IP risk team. Lewis has extensive experience using innovative IP insurance solutions to help facilitate transactions and investments involving some of the world’s best-known businesses. Lewis will service international risks from London. He will be responsible for developing specialist IP and transactional insurance products and solutions, ensuring clients are able to manage and mitigate IP risks.
Patrick joins Lockton as producer and due diligence project manager from Artex, where she oversaw the insurance needs of a portfolio of captive insurance and market facing reinsurance accounts.
McKay joins Lockton from CBRE, where she led business development and client solutions for real estate investors and landlords. She will be leading business development for Lockton’s Transactional Risk Real Estate team.
MS Amlin Promotes Cleary to Head of Crisis Management
MS Amlin, the London-based Lloyd’s re/insurer, announced the promotion of Jamie Cleary to head of Crisis Management, effective immediately. Cleary will take on this role alongside his existing responsibilities as lead underwriter for Credit and Political Risk, and will report to Neil Walker, deputy chief underwriting officer and head of Speciality Insurance.
Based in London, Cleary will lead the growth and development of MS Amlin’s crisis management portfolio, which offers tailor made solutions to protect clients from major incidents that might disrupt their business or harm their reputation.
Cleary has more than two decades of experience in the London market. Following seven years at Talbot AIG, Jamie joined MS Amlin’s crisis management team in 2010, where he helped lead the development of the business’s credit and political risk and political violence accounts. An expert in credit, political risk, war and terrorism insurance, Cleary is also a member of the Lloyd’s Trade Credit and Political Risk Panel.
“In an era of heightened geopolitical risk and uncertainty, our clients are looking for tailored and responsive solutions to the many risk management challenges they face. I’m thrilled that Jamie will be leading MS Amlin’s crisis management portfolio in his new, expanded role,” commented Walker, deputy chief underwriting officer and head of Speciality Insurance.
“This promotion is testament to MS Amlin’s deep industry expertise and commitment to investing in the development of our internal talent pool.”

Topics
London
Mississippi
