BOXX Insurance, the Toronto-based cyber insurtech and managing general agent, has announced the launch of a cyber risk mitigation solution in collaboration with AXA, aimed at providing crucial support to small businesses.
Recognizing the critical need for comprehensive protection against cyber threats for small businesses, BOXX Insurance has developed a user-friendly solution designed to help businesses better predict and prevent, potential cyber attacks.
“Small businesses often face significant challenges in securing adequate support against cyber risks, which can have devastating consequences for their operations” said Vishal Kundi, CEO and founder, BOXX Insurance.
“Driven by our mission to make the world a digitally safer place, we conducted in-depth research to understand the specific needs of small businesses. The findings underscored the importance of not only responding to and recovering from cyber attacks but also predicting and preventing them,” Kundi added.
“Recognizing that 80% of cyber breaches stem from inadequate security measures, this new solution empowers businesses to proactively combat cyber threats. Through the provision of real-time alerts, digital risk assessments, and ongoing training, we are proud to introduce this indispensable tool to support our business clients, launching initially in Spain today,” according to Alfonso Zayas Satrustegui, AXA Seguros España. “By offering companies a dynamically updated task list for sustained protection and equipping team leaders with a reporting dashboard to monitor progress, we deliver a powerful tool ensuring the digital safeguarding of our valued business clients.”
The solution focuses on risk mitigation by enhancing the ability of small businesses to predict and prevent cyber risks delivered in partnership with AXA by:
“The AXA Future Risk Report underscores the escalating threat posed by cyber threats,” remarked Kundi. “Whilst 68% of individuals acknowledge their vulnerability to cyber risks, an overwhelming 90% of experts concur that the potential for a massive global cyberattack is significant. BOXX takes great pride in collaborating with AXA to deliver a comprehensive solution that addresses the evolving needs of their clients, strengthening them against these increasing risks.”
About BOXX Insurance
Privately held BOXX has offices in Toronto, Miami, Zurich, Dubai and Mumbai. All BOXX cyber insurance policies are underwritten by global insurance giants. As a Lloyd’of London coverholder, BOXX underwrites, prices, sells policies and handles renewals and administration.
Source: BOXX Insurance

Topics
Cyber
InsurTech
Commercial Lines
Business Insurance
Tech
AXA XL
