This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Liberty Specialty Markets and Howden Re.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Liberty Specialty Markets Promotes Mahida to Head of 3rd Party Claims UK & MENA
Liberty Specialty Markets (LSM), part of Liberty Mutual Insurance Group, has announced the appointment of Nikunj Mahida as head of Third Party Claims, UK & MENA with immediate effect. Mahida reports directly to Scott Kellers, head of Claims, UK & MENA.
Mahida leads the London claim team for LSM’s Financial and Professional (FINPRO), Cyber and Casualty lines. His promotion into this role is not only reflective of his technical acumen but also based upon his deep-seated understanding of clients’ needs.
Mahida joined LSM in November 2015 as a senior claims apecialist, FINPRO, and subsequently moved into the role of claims manager, FINPRO in September 2018. Mahida was promoted to head of FINPRO Claims and LSM cyber claims lead in October 2023.
Prior to joining LSM, Mahida was a senior claims specialist at Chubb. He has a background in law, having qualified as a solicitor in 2010.
Howden Re Announces 4 Senior Appointments in Germany
Howden Re, the reinsurance and risk advisory arm of insurance broker Howden, announced the build out of its capabilities in the DACH region with four senior appointments in Germany.
Lars Nelson joins as managing director, head of German branch, Howden Re; Dr. Bjoern Hagendorff is also appointed managing director, head of Regional Clients, Germany; Dr. Mathias Raschke joins as director, Nat Cat Modelling, Germany and Austria; and Verena Schärtl joins as director, Head of Actuarial, Germany and Austria.
These new hires join the existing Howden Re team in the region including recent appointments of Anke Salm-Reifferscheidt, head of Broking & Strategy, Howden Re Germany & Austria; Wolfram Schultz, head of Casualty Reinsurance, Continental Europe, and Alex Roth, head of Capital and Operational Solutions. With the new additions, Howden Re has created a broad team of experts to serve Germany, offering local broking, catastrophe modelling, actuarial services, and client relations expertise, in addition to the strategic, capital and risk advisory capabilities of Howden Re and the wider Howden Group.
“Germany is the biggest economy in Europe. The expansion of our team is a key strategic step for Howden Re as we broaden our footprint, strengthen capabilities and demonstrate our commitment to delivering outstanding service and value to our clients in the DACH region,” commented Massimo Reina, CEO, Howden Re International.
Lars Nelson will join Howden Re on Jan. 1, 2025, bringing 20 years of reinsurance expertise, including roles at Aon and SiriusPoint in Germany. He was most recently area head and SVP at Aon’s Reinsurance Solutions based in Hamburg. From 2010 to 2023 he held various management roles at SiriusPoint, including general manager and underwriting manager for Central Europe. Prior to that Nelson also completed over six years at Aon, where he focused on German as well as global client management.
Dr. Bjoern Hagendorff will join Howden Re on Nov. 1, 2024. He joins from Aon’s Reinsurance Solutions Germany, bringing significant leadership as well as treaty-broking experience, particularly with German regional insurance companies. He began his broking career at Aon’s Reinsurance Solutions in 2012 and most recently served as vice president and deputy area head. Previously, Hagendorff was a researcher at Hannover Re, where he focused on “Natural Catastrophes and Insurance Securitization – Performance and Risk Implications.”
Dr. Mathias Raschke (a doctor of engineering) joined Howden Re on Sept. 1, 2024 and brings over 25 years of experience in nat cat research and modelling. Most recently, he served as a nat cat analyst at Ecclesia Reinsurance and a senior consultant for nat cat modelling at R+V Versicherung. Prior to this, he held research roles at ETH Zurich, IWSÖ Weimar, and Bauhaus University Weimar.
Verena Schaertl also joined Howden Re on Oct. 1, 2024, bringing extensive experience in actuarial science and risk management. Prior to joining Howden Re, she led Solvency II quantitative reporting and ORSA reporting at WWK Versicherungen since 2016 and managed client projects across the DACH region at Guy Carpenter. Her expertise spans risk assessment, sustainability reporting, along with proficiency in various actuarial software and tools.

Topics
Claims
Excess Surplus
New Markets
Germany
