This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance, Chubb Global Markets and the insurtech bolttech.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
BHSI Promotes 3 Senior Leaders for UK Executive & Professional Lines
Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI) has announced the three leadership appointments in its UK Executive & Professional Lines business.
Jess Kirby has been named head of Executive & Professional Lines, responsible for the management and leadership of BHSI’s Commercial Management Liability, Financial Institutions and Professional Indemnity businesses. Kirby is stepping into the role previously occupied by Chris Warrior who will focus on driving technical underwriting excellence across each of BHSI’s Executive & Professional Lines segments. Additionally, Tom Harris has been named head of Commercial Management Liability, replacing Jess Kirby.
Kirby was previously head of Commercial Management Liability, UK. She joined BHSI in 2018 as senior underwriter, Commercial D&O. With 15 years in the industry, she has held a variety of increasingly senior-level positions in the executive and professional lines business. Kirby can continue to be reached at jessica.kirby@bhspecialty.com.
Warrior joined BHSI in 2019 as head of Management Liability, UK. Warrior has 40 years of insurance experience and will be driving continued technical development across executive and professional lines. Warrior can continue to be reached at chris.warrior@bhspecialty.com.
Harris joined BHSI in 2021 as senior underwriter, Commercial Management Liability. During his 15-year career, Harris has held a variety of increasingly senior financial lines-focused positions with both insurers and brokers. He can continue to be reached at thomas.harris@bhspecialty.com.
Rounding out BHSI’s UK Executive & Professional Lines leadership team are Janine McGriskin, head of Financial Lines, Dave Harries, executive underwriter, and Maeve Kelleher, head of Claims.
BHSI provides a full line of Executive & Professional Lines coverages to customers in the U.K., Europe and worldwide, including executive liability, cyber, professional lines, and transactional liability insurance. Multinational programs are available with local policies in 170 countries.
Chubb Taps AIG’s Collins as Global Markets’ Head of Airline
Chubb announced the appointment of Chris Collins as head of Airline for Chubb Global Markets (CGM), the company’s London market wholesale and specialty business that includes its Lloyd’s platform.
In this role, Collins will be responsible for leading the development and management of the CGM Airline portfolio. He will be based in London and report to Simon Abbott, product head Aviation for CGM. The appointment will be effective in July.
Collins joins Chubb from AIG where he was international head of Airline and Deductible since March 2022. Previously he was the insurer’s UK head of Aerospace for three years. Collins has more than 25 years’ experience in aviation insurance, working on both the broker and insurer side in a variety of roles.
This latest appointment is another step in the wider growth and development of the Aviation team within CGM which also announced the hire of Olivia Clark as general aviation underwriter. She was previously aviation and space underwriting analyst at Nexus Group. Her appointment is effective in June. Clark joins Martin Audis, whose role as senior underwriter general aviation was announced last August.
Insurtech bolttech Names Schaedler as CEO for Europe
bolttech, the Singapore-based insurtech, announced the appointment of Dr. Jens Schaedler as chief executive officer, Europe.
Based in Switzerland, Schaedler will provide strategic leadership across bolttech’s Europe operations, driving new and existing market and partnership growth. Taking over from Andrew Cons, Schaedler’s role is effective immediately.
Schaedler was most recently head of Device Protection, Europe, and General Manager, Central Europe, playing an important role supporting business partners, ranging from international telecommunications operators, and manufacturers and retailers in the consumer electronics and medical device industries, to drive profitable growth.
Previously, Schaedler was the founder and CEO of i-surance AG, a Europe-based B2B2C digital insurance platform acquired by bolttech in July 2021. Since becoming part of bolttech, Schaedler has been a key member of the bolttech executive leadership team, driving strategy and business development across the region.
Schaedler comes with more than 18 years of experience in the telecommunications sector having been a partner at consultancies Bain & Co. and Booz Allen Hamilton in Switzerland.
“Since we welcomed the i-surance team to the bolttech family, Jens has established himself as a valuable leader with a strong depth and breadth of understanding of the industry. His expertise in developing game-changing digital insurance solutions is a major asset to bolttech as we continue to build our embedded insurance capabilities across Europe,” commented Rob Schimek, group chief executive officer, bolttech.
bolttech currently operates in 30 markets globally including 19 markets across Europe. With a full suite of digital and data-driven capabilities, bolttech powers connections between insurers, distributors, and customers to make it easier and more efficient to buy and sell insurance and protection products.

Topics
Liability
Europe
Aviation
AIG
Chubb
Professional Liability
