This edition of International People Moves details appointments at the London-based broker Miller and the insurer HDI Global in France.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Miller Appoints RKH’s Malin, Marsh’s Gil Ramirez for Renewables Team
Miller, the London-based independent specialist reinsurance broker, announced the appointment of Hayley Malin as head of Infrastructure in its Construction team, and Laura Gil Ramirez as account executive in its Renewable Energy and Environmental Technology team (REET).
Malin will report to Pauline Goreham, head of Construction, and Gil Ramirez will report into Rhys Newland, Head of Renewable Energy & Environmental Technology.
With 25 years’ experience in the insurance industry, including 10 years specializing in the renewable energy sector, Malin joins from RKH Speciality. Over the course of her career, she has also held positions at Willis and A J Gallagher. Alongside her infrastructure team responsibility, she will also take a dual role in Miller’s REET team, deploying her renewable energy expertise across Miller’s infrastructure and REET client base.
Gil Ramirez joins Miller from Marsh where she was a client executive in its Renewable Energy team for five years covering advisory, construction and operational risks for a variety of renewable clients. Gil Ramirez was also at GCube, the specialist renewable energy insurer, prior to Marsh and has previous experience in financial services compliance and a legal background, bringing a wealth of experience to the REET team.
Miller appointed Rhys Newland as head of Renewable Energy and Environmental Technology in July 2021, and has already expanded the team through a number of hires as it continues to target the space as an important growth driver.
Chubb’s Haquette to Lead French Branch Office at HDI Global
Jean-Marie Haquette will take over the executive management of the HDI Global SE branch office in France, effective Sept. 1, 2022.
Etienne de Varax is responsible for interim management of the branch until the new managing director takes up the position.
Subject to approval by the responsible regulatory authorities, Haquette will take over as the successor to Florence Louppe, who left the company on March 31, 2022. Haquette will continue the development and service strategy of HDI Global in France in order to ensure that customers and brokers derive maximum benefit from the great expertise of the industrial insurer in the French market.
With more than 30 years working for several international industrial insurers, Haquette contributes a wealth of experience to his future function at HDI in France. Most recently, he was a member of the executive committee of Chubb France. As its underwriting director, he was responsible for claims, engineering risks, marine, liability and specialty.
Previously, he was the head of the French branch office of Mapfre Global Risks. Prior to that, Haquette spent 10 years working in various positions for Zurich Corporate Insurance, including posts as country CFO and COO, and as head of First Party Underwriting. Formerly, he had a stint with the AXA Group in primary and in reinsurance business. There he held posts as casualty and property underwriter, as risk engineer and as underwriting manager property. Haquette was born in France.

Topics
Chubb
