Beat Capital Partners, a long-duration venture-capital investor that specializes in the insurance industry, announced the launch of a specialist energy underwriter, Horace Agency Ltd.
Led by industry veteran Chris Charlton, Horace will focus exclusively on onshore and offshore energy insurance worldwide outside the US, with a focus on those clients transitioning to a net zero environment, initially writing on behalf of Syndicates 4242/1416 and other participants.
Based in London, CEO Charlton brings extensive expertise and more than 25 years’ market experience to the business. He most recently held the title of chief underwriting officer (CUO) and head of London at Barents Re, having originally joined the business as head of energy in 2013. Prior to his tenure at Barents Re, Charlton held a number of senior positions including head of offshore energy at Swiss Re and at Hiscox.
“I am excited to partner with Beat to establish this new energy underwriting business. At a time of unprecedented change for the energy sector, we believe our business partners will benefit from experienced teams who are dedicated to finding solutions for clients. We look forward to building on these relationships in the future,” commented Charlton.
“Beat is in the business of supporting entrepreneurs of proven talent and Chris, with an outstanding track record of over 25 years, exemplifies what we look for. The combination of his impressive background, market reputation and expertise make us excited about the prospects for Horace,” said John Cavanagh, chairman of London-based Beat.
About Horace and Beat Capital
Horace said it specializes in clients involved in the exploration, production and refining of hydrocarbons and will support them and their insurance requirements as they transition to a more carbon neutral model.
With its insurance industry focus, Beat said it offers the right individuals and teams start-up funding, infrastructure, risk capital, and highly rated paper, alongside experienced guidance and support. Beat has launched 10 businesses since its founding in 2017, which will collectively write gross premiums estimated in excess of US$650 million in 2023 and operates Lloyd’s Syndicates 4242 and 1416. Beat is backed by experienced insurance investors Bain Capital Credit, Elliott Management and Amwins, as well as its management team.
Source: Beat Captial Partners
Photograph: Floating production storage and offloading (FPSO) tanker vessel near oil rig platform. Photo credit: Bigstock

Topics
New Markets
