This edition of International People Moves details appointments at insurance broker WTW and the re/insurer Everest Group.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
WTW’s Risk & Broking Unit Names Marsh’s Clarke as President, as Garrard Becomes Chair
Insurance broker WTW appointed Lucy Clarke as president, Risk & Broking, and has promoted Adam Garrard to the new role of chairman, Risk & Broking.
Clarke and Garrard will work closely to drive the continued growth of WTW’s Risk & Broking segment, which comprises more than 14,000 colleagues serving 140 countries and markets around the world.
In her role as president, Risk & Broking, Clarke reports to Carl Hess, WTW’s chief executive officer, and is responsible for the day-to-day financial and operational management and growth of the business.
Clarke brings with her deep industry experience gained through a 25-year career that has included diverse leadership positions with JLT Group and Marsh. In her most recent role, she served as the president of Marsh Specialty and Global Placement. Prior to that, she was the chief executive officer of JLT Global Specialty, the insurance and risk arm of the JLT Group.
Garrard was previously WTW’s global head of Risk & Broking. Prior to that, he was head of international business for WTW from 2016 to 2019. He spent more than 20 years at Willis Group in a variety of senior roles worldwide. Between 2012 and 2015, he served as the regional CEO of Willis Asia, based in Singapore. Prior to this, he held regional CEO roles in Continental Europe and Australasia. During his time in Asia, he also spent 18 months in Shanghai, setting up Willis’ China operation.
Everest Names McBride, Garcia in Key Claims Appointments
Everest Group Ltd., the Bermuda-based property/casualty and specialty re/insurer, announced two key leadership appointments to the company’s claims operations.
Andrew McBride has been promoted to group chief claims officer, where he will lead claims across Everest’s Insurance and Reinsurance divisions, working closely with the company’s global leaders to drive claims excellence and superior service. McBride was most recently global head of Claims at Everest Insurance, where he developed a highly talented team, with enhanced capabilities, service and expertise. Prior to joining Everest in 2021, McBride served as executive vice president, Claims, at Chubb and led claims functions at ACE, QBE Insurance Group in Europe, and Aon.
Everest also announced Lope Garcia has joined the company’s Reinsurance division as Global Reinsurance chief claims officer. Based in Miami, Florida, he reports to McBride and will work closely with Jill Beggs, reinsurance chief operating officer, and her Global Executive team to direct the function’s strategy and operations.
Garcia brings more than three decades of claims leadership experience, most recently as senior vice president of Claims for Latin America at Chubb, where he designed and executed the organization’s claims strategy, leading more than 1,400 employees across nine countries. Additionally, Garcia served as chief claims officer for Latin America at Zurich and AIG.

Topics
Claims
Willis Towers Watson
