Howden, the London-based insurance group, announced the appointment of Rowan Douglas as CEO, Climate Risk & Resilience, effective June 26.
Douglas’ role is to continue to build an expert, full spectrum function to support the group worldwide, embedding climate and resilience across its specialities and regions. Charlie Langdale will step up as chair, Climate Risk and Resilience. Douglas is based in London and reports to David Howden, CEO, Howden.
With more than 30 years of experience in the re/insurance industry, Douglas brings a wealth of expertise in the field of climate-related risk. He was previously with Willis Towers Watson (WTW) where, prior to his departure, he led the Climate and Resilience Hub (CRH), which he grew to more than 130 climate risk professionals.
At the CRH, Douglas drove the creation of the Insurance Development Forum (IDF), and now chairs its Operating Committee, and incubated the Coalition for Climate Resilient Investment.
Previously, he served on the board of Willis Re as CEO Analytics, founding the Willis Research Network that began groundbreaking work on climate modeling in 2006. From 2011 to 2016, Rowan served on the UK Prime Minister’s Council for Science & Technology and was awarded a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in 2016 for services to the economy through risk, insurance and sustainable growth.
Douglas will continue in his role as chair of the Operating Committee for the IDF, as part of his commitment to mobilising multilateral and cross-industry cooperation as a means to tackling the complex challenges around climate risk and resilience.
Howden said this appointment is an important step in accelerating the growth of its climate and resilience capabilities and is a prelude to further significant investment to create a platform for the future that meets the opportunity and scale of market demand over the coming decades.
Howden’s climate and resilience capabilities will span physical risks, the risks associated with decarbonization, the wider risks stemming from the low carbon transition and growing legal liability risks faced by public and private sector organizations, the company said.
Douglas’ appointment reflects Howden’s commitment that the insurance sector plays a critical role in the world’s response to the climate emergency, including the transition to a low carbon economy and supporting exposed populations and industries, according to Howden.
Related: Climate Change Poses Much Greater Existential Risk for the World Than COVID-19
The appointment follows Howden’s recent announcements on the launch of the world’s first carbon credit invalidation product for the voluntary carbon market and its partnership with Resilient Cities Network. Through other partnerships, including those with the United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) and the Danish Red Cross, Howden has helped enable those most exposed to climate disasters to access pre-financing.
“Tackling climate change requires the most substantial reallocation of capital in history, and insurance has a huge role to play across the mitigation, adaptation and resilience agenda. Meeting the challenge will take a global effort and radical collaboration across all industries, and between both the private and public sectors,” commented David Howden, chief executive officer of Howden.
“To have someone of Rowan’s calibre join us demonstrates not only the credentials of our Climate Risk and Resilience team but highlights our desire to use insurance as a force for good. Our goal is to embed climate and resilience expertise across the insurance value chain, for the benefit both of existing clients and those who do not have access to insurance,” he added.
“I am thrilled to be joining Howden at this remarkable time in its growth and with climate central to its future development. My decision was driven by the company’s recognition, from the very top, that insurance capabilities are essential to de-risk the climate transition and protect lives, assets and livelihoods,” according to Rowan Douglas, CEO, Climate Risk & Resilience.
“Our focus will be on embedding the work of the Climate Risk and Resilience division across all of Howden’s product lines and geographies, ensuring it supports our clients and partners,” Douglas added.
Source: Howden

Topics
Climate Change
Willis Towers Watson
