Greek wildfire risks increased as temperatures climb and near gale force winds blow across the Aegean Sea, while Storm Lilian is battering parts of the UK.
Firefighters, supported by helicopters, are trying to control an outbreak in Paiania, on eastern slopes of Mount Hymettos 17 kilometers (11 miles) east of Athens. Another wildfire is being tackled near the mountain village of Demiri in central Peloponnese.
For Saturday, there is a very high risk of fires in Athens and the surrounding Attica region, plus Peloponnese and islands including Crete, Lesvos, Samos and Evia. The Etesian winds or meltemia will blow from the north over the weekend, with temperatures on the Greek mainland reaching as high as 39C (102F) on Saturday.
Remnants of Hurricane Ernesto Trigger Wind and Rain Warnings in Scotland
“For the next three days we will have difficult weather conditions and the meltemia summer winds will prevail,” said Civil Protection Minister Vasilis Kikilias. Thursday was the 40th consecutive day with temperatures above the seasonal norm, he said.
Greece and the Balkans have been seared by heat waves and forest fires this summer, as climate change increases the frequency and intensity of extreme weather events. While this season has seen the most blazes in more than two decades in Greece, the deployment of drones and cameras has allowed the authorities to largely contain the outbreaks.
On the Atlantic Ocean island of Madeira, Portuguese firefighters are continuing to tackle a blaze that started last week in a hard-to-access mountainous area. There is currently no risk of the wildfire reaching the city of Funchal, according to the authorities.
Storm Lilian — which includes the remnants of Hurricane Ernesto — is bringing strong winds and heavy rain to northern England, north Wales and southern Scotland. The 12th named storm of the season will generate wind gusts of up to 75 miles (121 kilometers) per hour.
Orange wind alerts are also in place for the Dutch and German coasts.
London is under a yellow alert for heavy rain on Saturday, before temperatures climb to 27C by next Wednesday, according to the Met Office.
Winds are now strengthening in many areas with the strongest winds occurring during the next few hours across northern England and north Wales
Damaging gusts are possible in places so ensure you stay #WeatherAware https://t.co/Oudv6Qw4lW
— Met Office (@metoffice) August 23, 2024
Photograph: Firefighters work to control a wildfire in Dionysos, Greece. Photo credit: Nick Paleologos/Bloomberg
Related:

Topics
Catastrophe
Natural Disasters
Wildfire
Windstorm
