This edition of International People Moves details appointments at the MGA Devonshire Underwriting and Generali Global Corporate & Commercial (GC&C), .
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Grant Joins MGA Devonshire Underwriting as Underwriting Manager
Devonshire Underwriting, the London-based managing general agent that specializes in underwriting transactional risk solutions, announced the further expansion of its team with the appointment of Michael Grant as underwriting manager.
Grant joins Devonshire with a wealth of experience as a leading underwriter, having most recently served as vice president at Euclid Transactional UK Ltd. He is renowned for his expertise in legal and transactional risk (TR), particularly in premium transactions, complex carve-outs, and emerging markets, including Europe, MENA and sub-Saharan Africa.
In his new role, Grant will initially focus on enhancing Devonshire’s warranty & indemnity (W&I) product offering. His extensive experience across the transactional risk space, combined with his strong relationships in the sector, will be instrumental in driving Devonshire’s growth and competitiveness in key jurisdictions.
“Michael’s experience in Europe, MENA and sub-Saharan Africa complements our existing team perfectly, and we are excited about the opportunities his appointment brings,” commented James Dodd, partner at Devonshire Underwriting.
Devonshire was founded in 2024 by four experts in the TR underwriting sector, who together have more than 30 years of experience. The company operates in the UK and underwrites transactions in the UK, Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia, South America, Central America, Australasia and beyond.
Generali GC&C Makes 3 Key Appointments in Mediterranean and LatAm Region
Generali Global Corporate & Commercial (GC&C) has made three strategic appointments in its leadership team in the Mediterranean and Latin America region.
Starting from May 6, Frederico Gonçalves assumed the position of head of Property. Effective June 1, Joaquin Espallargas Barrio was appointed head of GC&C Portugal and Manuel Lezama took on the role of head of Marine & Aviation Underwriting.
As former head of GC&C Portugal, Frederico Gonçalves brings more than 15 years of expertise within the insurance sector. He held previous underwriting and risk management positions at Generali, Chubb, Innovarisk Underwriting and Fidelidade. Gonçalves holds a master’s degree in Industrial Engineering and Management from Instituto Superior Técnico in Lisbon.
Joaquin Espallargas Barrio served as GC&C broker relationship manager for the past two years, and has held various underwriting roles that enhance his expertise in corporate relationships and risk assessment. Prior to joining Generali, he worked at Plus Ultra Seguros and Aseguradores de Riesgos Nucleares AIE. He holds a master’s degree in Financial Institutions and Markets from the Colegio Universitario de Estudios Financieros in Madrid.
Manuel Lezama has a solid background in marine underwriting, having held senior roles within Generali Global Corporate & Commercial, and has also accumulated significant experience in insurance brokerage and risk management. Lezama holds a bachelor’s degree in law from the University of Deusto.
GC&C, a Generali subsidiary, provides insurance solutions and P/C services to medium-large companies and intermediaries in over 180 countries worldwide. GC&C’s total earned premiums were €3.1 billion in 2023.

Topics
Underwriting
Insurance Wholesale
