Pine Walk Capital Ltd., a specialist MGA platform and wholly owned subsidiary of specialty re/insurer Fidelis MGU, and Castlelake L.P., a global alternative investment manager, announced the launch of an aviation-focused managing general agent Itasca MGA.
Itasca MGA will specialize in underwriting, structuring and managing risk associated with secured commercial aviation financing on behalf of Fidelis MGU Group and Itasca Re Ltd., a Bermuda-licensed reinsurance company, established by Castlelake, which specializes in insurance-backed financing solutions for buyers and owners of commercial aircraft assets.
To support airline and lessor customers, Itasca MGA will use insurance provided by Fidelis Insurance Ireland DAC and Fidelis Underwriting Ltd., alongside Starr Europe Insurance Ltd. and Starr Europe Insurance Ltd., with the latter two continuing to be reinsured by Itasca Re.
“In the context of the current market, we believe aircraft non-payment insurance has the potential to unlock attractive financing that is increasingly out of reach for a large subset of aircraft buyers and owners,” said Armin Rothauser, partner, Asset-Backed Direct Lending, at Castlelake. “We are excited to partner with the experienced Fidelis MGU team to establish this specialized MGA and expand the reach and capacity of Itasca Re’s solutions to attempt to address this growing demand.”
Since its launch in 2017, Pine Walk Capital Ltd. has established seven MGAs offering custom underwriting and operational and regulatory frameworks focused on closely defined business lines. Itasca MGA, representing the eighth MGA in the Pine Walk Group, will further expand Pine Walk’s distribution into the specialized aviation sector and provide Fidelis enhanced opportunity to add further aviation industry exposure that is highly complementary to its current portfolio.
“We’re excited to welcome the Itasca MGA to the Pine Walk Group and support its innovative solutions. Fidelis MGU and Pine Walk are continually looking for ways to strengthen our underwriting portfolio,” commented Rinku Patel, group COO of Fidelis MGU and CEO of Pine Walk. “The launch of Itasca MGA brings further market-leading expertise and distribution into the group and further underlines Pine Walk’s ambitious growth agenda over the next five years”.
“We look forward to combining Pine Walk’s specialized services with Castlelake’s aviation expertise and Itasca Re’s insurance market experience to accelerate and broaden the scope of clients the Fidelis Group’s bespoke aviation solutions reach,” said Richard Coulson, CEO of Insurance and deputy group CUO.
About Castlelake and Fidelis MGU
Minneapolis, Minn.-based Castlelake, L.P. is a global alternative investment manager focused on investments in real assets, specialty finance and aviation. Founded in 2005, Castlelake manages approximately $20 billion of assets.
Fidelis MGU is a privately owned, Bermuda-based managing general underwriter, which, through its subsidiaries, is a global underwriter of property, bespoke and specialty insurance and reinsurance products. Fidelis MGU is separately owned and managed from Fidelis Insurance Group.
Source: Castlelake and Fidelis

Topics
Aviation
Insurance Wholesale
