Insurance brokers Aon plc, Guy Carpenter and WTW announced they each have completed previously announced mergers and acquisitions.
Aon’s acquisition of Griffiths & Armour, which was first announced in November 2024, officially completed on Jan. 1, 2025. Aon said the deal supports its strategy to expand its regional presence in the UK and Ireland. Griffiths & Armour, a UK-based insurance broker, will now trade as “Griffiths & Armour, an Aon company.”
Now a part of Aon, Griffiths & Armour will provide clients with a greater breadth of solutions for clients across both Aon and Griffiths & Armour with complementary strengths that create a platform for further growth.
With more than 200 employees, Griffiths & Armour is known for its specialist expertise in professional indemnity insurance and strength in general insurance broking. As part of the acquisition, Aon said it is committed to Griffiths & Armour’s Liverpool office at Princes Dock and its strong team in Liverpool, Manchester, Dublin and London.
Guy Carpenter Acquisition
Guy Carpenter announced on Jan. 7 that it had completed the acquisition of the remaining 51.5% stake of Carpenter Turner, an Athens-based regional leader in the reinsurance broking and advisory business.
The deal was first announced in November 2024.
With immediate effect, Carpenter Turner’s CEO, Alexander Turner, becomes CEO, Guy Carpenter Greece, reporting to Julian Enoizi, CEO, Guy Carpenter Europe.
Now operating as Guy Carpenter Greece, the combined business will deliver Guy Carpenter’s comprehensive range of global capabilities, solutions, and advice – including treaty and facultative reinsurance, data and analytics, strategic advisory, and capital markets solutions – to clients across the Greek and Cypriot markets, as well as the Balkans and Turkey.
WTW Completes Sale of TRANSACT
WTW has completed the sale of TRANZACT to GTCR, a leading private equity firm, and Recognize, a leading digital services investor.
The deal was first announced in October 2024.
“Completing the sale of TRANZACT is a meaningful milestone in sharpening our strategic focus on our core offerings,” said Carl Hess, WTW’s chief executive officer, in a statement issued on Jan. 2. “This divestiture demonstrates our commitment to optimizing our portfolio, further enabling us to accelerate performance and enhance efficiency to deliver substantial value over time.”

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
New Markets
Aon
Willis Towers Watson
