This edition of International People Moves details appointments at the brokers Willis Towers Watson (WTW) and Miller, along with the MGA Tamesis DUAL.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
WTW Promotes Richardson to Europe Leader for Insurance Consulting & Technology
WTW, a leading global advisory, broking and solutions company, announced the appointment of Tammy Richardson as Europe Regional Leader for its Insurance Consulting and Technology (ICT) business. Richardson most recently served as UK & Ireland leader for the same business.
In her new role, Richardson will lead a team of over 500 colleagues with responsibility for P&L management and strategy. In addition to becoming the newest member of WTW’s global ICT leadership team, Richardson is already a member of its GB Inclusion and Diversity Council and Executive Sponsor of the Young Professionals Network.
Richardson has over 30 years of experience in the insurance industry with a diversified background in finance, risk, strategy, sales and business development, leadership and P&L management. Prior to joining WTW in 2012, Richardson held executive and board-level roles at Genworth Financial and GE Capital.
Miller Launches French Cargo Team
Miller, the London-based independent specialist re/insurance broker, announced the expansion of its cargo capabilities across Europe with the launch of a new French team.
Nicolas Juge, who brings 30 years’ shipping and marine experience, is appointed head of Cargo, France, with Gaëlle Besnardeau appointed account executive. Murielle Ducamp, who brings significant claims expertise, assumes the role of claims executive, while Melissa Oddoze will take the role of account handler.
The new team, which will be based in Marseille, join from Forsea’s, a Swiss broker company created by Nicolas Juge in 2010. As the growing complexity of modern supply chains increases, the new French team will work closely with colleagues across London, Geneva, Paris and Brussels to broaden Miller’s European presence and deepen its Cargo capabilities.
“It is a privilege to have the opportunity to lead this highly skilled team, which will form a core part of a truly integrated European Cargo effort,” commented Juge. “Miller has established a reputation for excellence in this specialist field and has made a clear commitment to invest in deepening and broadening these core capabilities both technically and geographically. This offers clients access to a unique combination of skills, experience and expertise.”
Jamie Kearney, head of Cargo at Miller, said the new team is “highly complementary” to Miller’s broader cargo presence across Europe. “We have outlined Europe as an important part of Miller’s overall growth objectives and, as we expand our offering across the continent, I am looking forward to working with our teams to take our ability to serve our clients to even greater heights,” Kearney said.
This investment in France is a clear signal of Miller’s commitment to deepen its expertise in areas such as commodities, “which complement the deep rooted skills we have in areas such as credit and political risks,” said Arnaud Froideval, head of CPRI, Europe and Switzerland.
Tamesis DUAL Hires Argenta’s Toth as Director of Underwriting
Tamesis DUAL announced the appointment of Nicholas Toth as director of Underwriting. Toth will join the business in April 2022, reporting to Tony Lovett, managing director and founder of Tamesis.
Based in London, Toth will lead the underwriting, claims and compliance teams and will be responsible for positioning the business for further success as it expands its global footprint. He will work directly with underwriters to develop and manage the company’s overall product offerings to support growth.
Toth brings a broad knowledge of the reinsurance treaty market, having held a mixture of underwriting roles throughout his 25-plus-year career. He joins Tamesis after five years as head of Treaty and Outwards Reinsurance Manager at Argenta Syndicate Management Ltd. Prior to that, Toth spent 15 years at QBE Reinsurance as a senior underwriter in London, and two years at GE Reinsurance as an underwriter in Munich.
Tamesis DUAL Ltd., incorporating Tamesis DUAL Americas LLC, is a global specialty excess of loss treaty reinsurance business operating in the London market, Miami and Cologne. Tamesis offers reinsurance solutions, including “blended” or “composite” and retrocessional products, across all asset based classes including marine, offshore energy, onshore energy, property, aerospace, terrorism, and war and political risks. Established in 2011, Tamesis was the first treaty reinsurance MGA and underwrites net written premium in excess of US$250 million.
Tamesis is part of DUAL Corporate Risks, a subsidiary of the DUAL Group, a specialist underwriting agency.

Topics
InsurTech
Tech
Europe
Leadership
Trucking
Willis Towers Watson
