Tysers, the London-based insurance broker and subsidiary of AUB Group, announced that CEO Clive Buesnel is stepping down at the end of August.
As CEO since June 2020, Buesnel managed the company through its acquisition by AUB, a deal that was finalized in September 2022. In addition, at the start of COVID lockdowns, he addressed the company’s technology infrastructure, which at the start of the pandemic did not support remote working, said Tysers in a statement. During his tenure, Buesnel also managed regulatory investigations relating to historic activities in Latin America.
When AUB announced the acquisition of Tysers, Buesnel agreed to work with AUB to manage Tysers through the first phase of AUB ownership – jobs that are now complete, the company said.
These key post-acquisition tasks included the introduction and induction of a new Tysers chair, restructuring the Tysers executive team, simplification of the Tysers operating model and the split of Tysers’ operations into Wholesale, Retail and Managing Agencies.
Tysers is further evolving the AUB Group operating model going forward to coordinate Retail Broking, Wholesale Broking and Underwriting Agencies as global operations, given the synergies that exist across Australia, New Zealand and the UK markets.
“I have known Clive for a number of years and would like to thank and acknowledge the incredibly collegiate and supportive way in which he has assisted with the transition of Tysers ownership to the AUB Group,” commented Mike Emmett, CEO of AUB Group, in the statement.
“To facilitate the changes we have announced today, I shall (subject to obtaining all relevant regulatory approvals) be stepping in as interim CEO of Tysers to finalise the range of activities currently underway and to further optimise and restructure the business,” Emmett said.
During the year ahead, a new London-based CEO of Wholesale Broking (Global) will be appointed, he added.
“To coordinate Retail broking, we have already established a global Retail Broking leadership group made up of senior broking executives in Australia, New Zealand and the UK. This model will evolve over time, and we ultimately envisage appointing a global head of Retail, to be based in Australia. Over time we also propose to appoint a CEO of Underwriting Agencies (Global).”
Emmett thanked Buesnel for his contribution to Tysers and wished him “all the best for his next chapter.”
An independent Lloyd’s insurance broker, Tysers trades in 140 countries across the globe and has more than 1,000 employees. Its parent company, AUB, is group of retail & wholesale insurance brokers and underwriting agencies and managing general agencies.
Source: Tysers and AUB Group