This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI), Trans Re and CNA Hardy.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
BHSI Names AIG’s Bidmead as Head of Transactional Liability, Asia and Middle East
Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI) announced that it has named Louis Bidmead as head of Transactional Liability Insurance for Asia and the Middle East.
In this role he will work with BHSI’s global transactional liability team to provide BHSI’s comprehensive line of coverages to manage the risks of mergers, acquisitions, and other corporate transactions. He will report to Scotland Walsh-Riddle, head of Executive & Professional Liability for Asia, BHSI.
Bidmead comes to BHSI with 14 years of experience as both a lawyer specializing in M&A transactions and corporate advisory at major law firms and most recently as a senior underwriter, providing warranty & indemnity insurance solutions at American International Group. He is based in Singapore and can be reached at Louis.Bidmead@bhspecialty.com.
“BHSI continues to expand our transactional liability portfolio in Singapore and throughout Asia and the Middle East,” said Walsh-Riddle. “Louis has extensive knowledge of the intricacies of M&A transactions, and I am excited to have him leading our team as we deliver tailored and timely solutions for customers.”
Berkshire Hathaway’s TransRe Announces Latest Promotions
TransRe, the New York-based property/casualty reinsurer and subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway’s Alleghany Corp., has promoted a group of leaders to new roles in actuarial, underwriting and operations.
Established in 1977, TransRe is the brand name for Transatlantic Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries (including Transatlantic Reinsurance Co.)
CNA Hardy Appoints Senior Underwriters to UK Marine Team
CNA Hardy, the specialist commercial insurance provider for clients within the Lloyd’s and company markets, has made three new senior underwriter appointments plus an internal promotion of a senior underwriter to its UK Marine team.
Trevor McAuley joins as senior marine underwriter, based in Glasgow. McAuley will be responsible for Marine Cargo and Transport & Logistics underwriting for Scotland & Ireland and Marine Equipment/Subsea underwriting for UK company business. McAuley has 30 years’ insurance experience including roles at Allianz, XL Catlin, RSA and Tokio Marine.
Conlie Wong joins as senior underwriter, Marine Cargo and Transport & Logistics, based in Manchester. Wong will be responsible for Marine Cargo and Transport & Logistics renewal underwriting. Wong also has 30 years’ insurance experience including roles at Tokio Marine and Catlin.
Hugh Consitt joins as senior marine development underwriter, based in Manchester. Consitt will be responsible for new business development in the North of England for Marine Cargo business. Consitt joins CNA Hardy from Chubb where he spent eight years as regional senior cargo underwriter.
In addition, Michael Slack has been promoted to senior technical underwriter for Transport & Logistics business for UK company business. Slack is based in Manchester and joined CNA Hardy in 2014.
“I am delighted to welcome our new colleagues Trevor, Conlie and Hugh who will further strengthen our Marine proposition in the UK. I am also really pleased to congratulate Michael on his promotion as we improve the senior underwriting capabilities from both within our own ranks and externally with the caliber of Trevor, Conlie and Hugh,” commented Neil Atkinson, head of Marine UK.

Topics
Liability
Underwriting
New Markets
AIG
