This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Brit Ltd. in Bermuda and HDI Global in Germany.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Brit Names Guy Carpenter’s Stephenson to Lead Bermuda Expansion
 Brit Ltd. announced the appointment of Jonathan Stephenson as head of Office, Bermuda, subject to approval by the Bermuda Monetary Authority and the department of immigration.
Stephenson will lead Brit in Bermuda, helping to drive its planned expansion of Brit Re across property, casualty and specialty reinsurance.
As a full-service reinsurance platform, Brit Re will represent an important new growth pillar for the group and its global reinsurance capabilities, and will complement Brit’s existing successful property reinsurance offering which writes on behalf of Lloyd’s’ Syndicate 2987, the company said.
Prior to joining Brit, Stephenson was a managing director at Guy Carpenter, based in Toronto. During his 30-year career in reinsurance, Stephenson has been Pacific Region CEO for Guy Carpenter and an executive vice president at Aon.
Brit recently announced the appointment of Jacques Bonneau, formerly CEO and president of PartnerRe, to the board of Brit Re as a non-executive director in June.
“Jonathan is a highly regarded leader and practitioner within the international reinsurance market, and is the ideal candidate as we look to implement and deliver our ambitious Bermuda strategy,” commented Martin Thompson, CEO Brit Group, in a statement.
“With Jonathan in place, we look forward to announcing further appointments to deepen our capabilities on the Island that can support our plans for profitable growth across property, casualty and specialty classes. Jonathan is passionate about building businesses and developing high-performance collaborative cultures, making him a great fit for Brit,” Thompson said.
HDI Global Taps Geis From Allianz as Managing Director for Germany
HDI Global announced it has appointed Stephan Geis as managing director for Germany, effective Nov. 1.
Geis will be responsible for the German business of HDI Global SE. In his role as managing director Germany, he will report to Dr Barbara Klimaszewski-Blettner, member of the HDI Global Executive Board and chief claims officer who will retain responsibility for the Region Germany as chief market officer Germany.
With more than 15 years of experience in industrial insurance, Geis most recently was head of Distribution Germany/Switzerland at Allianz Commercial, where he was responsible for the sales territory in Germany and Switzerland.
“I am delighted to have brought Stephan Geis on board with HDI Global as new managing director Germany,” said Klimaszewski-Blettner, in a statement.
“Stephan is a proven expert in national and international industrial insurance. He has an exceptional grasp for the market and is highly regarded by customers, partners, and colleagues,” she added. “With his personality and leadership style, he embodies our cultural values in the best possible way. I am confident that he will play a key role in shaping the strategic development of our German business and achieve the best possible results for our customers, partners and HDI Global.”
“As our home market, the German market is an important pillar for HDI Global, accounting for over 25% of our overall result,” according to Dr. Edgar Puls, chairman of the HDI Global SE Executive Board. “Due to his many years of experience and extensive knowledge of the industry, Stephan Geis is well-positioned to maintain and expand our long-standing customer and partner relationships in Germany. I am looking forward to working with Stephan.”

Topics
Talent
Allianz
Human Resources
Germany
