This edition of International People Moves details appointments at DUAL France and Chubb’s Overseas General Insurance unit.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
DUAL Europe Taps Hiscox’s Hervé to Launch and Lead French Unit
DUAL Europe, the specialist underwriting arm of Howden Group, announced the appointment of Gwenaël Hervé as chairman to establish and develop DUAL’s business in France, one of Europe’s largest insurance markets, giving DUAL reach in 18 European countries.
Hervé, who is based in Paris, brings 30 years’ experience in the insurance industry in underwriting, sales, and leadership roles. Most recently, he was managing director at Hiscox France and previous roles include country head for Chubb France.
DUAL France will initially offer financial lines, professional indemnity, cyber, construction all-risks and title and M&A insurance solutions for medium-sized and large companies.
“We’re delighted to welcome Gwen to DUAL. We have long considered France as a logical market for us to expand our European offering, and Gwen is absolutely the top choice to establish our first office in this key market,” commented Olaf Jonda, CEO, DUAL Europe.
Jonda said Hervé’s number one priority “is building a team of talented underwriters across Financial Lines, Professional Indemnity, Cyber, Title and M&A business lines.”
DUAL was established in Madrid, Spain 25 years ago in 1998. The addition of France to the DUAL European portfolio follows new market openings in the Netherlands in April 2023 with DUAL Benelux, and Sweden in May 2023 with DUAL Nordics. DUAL today has over 1,500 people in 21 countries across the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific, and is one of Lloyd’s’ largest international coverholders. DUAL Europe operates from 17 locations in 13 countries.
Chubb’s Overseas General Insurance Names Spagnoli as Head of Consumer Lines
Chubb announced that Federico Spagnoli has been appointed division president, Consumer Lines for Overseas General Insurance, the company’s international general insurance operations.
He joins Chubb from Prudential Financial, where he served as chief executive officer of Fully Ecosystem, a wellness fintech venture. In his newly created role, which is effective Jan. 15, 2024, Spagnoli will have responsibility for Chubb’s consumer lines in 51 countries and territories.
Spagnoli will report to Juan Luis Ortega, executive vice president, Chubb Group, and president, Overseas General Insurance.
Spagnoli has more than 20 years of experience in insurance. Prior to leading Fully Ecosystem, he served as Regional President, Latin America for Prudential Financial. Over nearly 13 years at AIG, he held positions of increasing responsibility, including Regional Consumer CEO for EMEA and India; Regional Consumer Lines Head for Latin America; Personal Lines Regional Vice President for Latin America; and accident and health and personal lines leadership roles in Japan and South Korea.
Spagnoli holds a degree in law from Universidad del Salvador, a Master of Business Administration degree in Management and Finance from Washington University, St. Louis, and a Postgraduate Diploma in Strategy and Innovation from the University of Oxford. He also holds the Chartered Property Casualty Underwriting (CPCU) designation.
“Federico is a seasoned executive who brings significant experience building and leading consumer insurance and digital businesses across Asia, Europe and Latin America,” said Ortega.
“In this new role, Federico will provide leadership as we focus on optimizing and leveraging the full strengths of our consumer offering, from our broad range of personal lines and A&H products to our direct marketing platform, relationships with agents and brokers, and B2B2C digital distribution partnerships through Chubb Studio. We have substantial runway for growth in Asia Pacific, Latin America and Europe, and Federico has the track record and expertise to help us realize the combined potential of our consumer businesses,” he added.

Topics
Europe
Chubb
