Chubb announced the launch of a global transactional risk platform to provide transactional risk liability insurance products across international markets.
Chubb has appointed Josh Cowen as senior vice president, International Transactional Risk, to lead this initiative from London. Cowen, a seasoned mergers and acquisition (M&A) risk insurance professional, will be responsible for leading a team of underwriters focused on warranty and indemnity, tax and contingent liability products in jurisdictions outside of North America.
Chubb’s existing North America business will be enhanced, with the addition of Cowen in London. The global transactional risk platform will be focused on meeting the needs of broker partners and clients who require a global presence and operating footprint to support their global M&A transactions. The platform will operate globally with one leadership team led by Edward Markovich, executive vice president, Chubb Transactional Risk, and will utilize a coordinated and consistent strategy and approach to underwriting.
Cowen joins Chubb from Fusion Specialty UK where he was managing partner, according to his LinkedIn profile. He previously held senior roles at Aviva and AIG.
He will report to Lance Fraser, senior vice president, Chubb Transactional Risk. Cowen joins Chubb with nearly 15 years of transaction risk experience. Previously, he held senior management roles overseeing M&A underwriting at several marquee insurance brands.
Cowen is a qualified solicitor for England and Wales and practiced as a corporate lawyer for a leading London-based law firm prior to his move into M&A insurance underwriting.  He attended the University of Leeds where he received a Bachelor of Arts degree in Business Commerce and later attended the BPP Law School receiving his Graduate Diploma in Law (GDL) and Legal Practice Course (LPC).
“Chubb is positioned to support our broker partners and clients with transactional risk solutions in jurisdictions across the world with our new international business lead,” said Markovich. “Josh’s deep understanding of transactional risk underwriting, and leadership experience sourcing and leading M&A insurance placements will complement our goal to grow our transactional risk practice as a global platform.”
Source: Chubb

Topics
Trends
Chubb
