This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Lloyd’s syndicate AEGIS London and Markel, the insurance operations within Markel Group.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
AEGIS London Hires AIG’s Johnson and Lambert for New Cyber Underwriting Team
AEGIS London, the top quartile Lloyd’s syndicate, has hired a new cyber underwriting team. Daniel Johnson has been appointed to the role of class underwriter for cyber. He is joined by Lydia Lambert, as cyber underwriter. Both formerly worked at AIG.
Having begun his career with AIG in 2012, Johnson took on a number of cyber underwriting roles before moving to broker Aon in 2020. He subsequently rejoined AIG, rising to lead AIG’s UK cyber and technology team. Johnson will report to Ben Lockwood, AEGIS London’s head of specialty underwriting.
Lydia Lambert worked alongside Johnson at AIG, holding a range of cyber underwriting roles before becoming major accounts cyber team leader.
“Although we’ve not had a dedicated cyber team since 2015, we’ve been watching the market with great interest, in part because we’ve been involved in a number of cyber binders and consortia,” commented Lockwood.
“We feel now that the market’s matured, learned some hard lessons and begun to find some sort of equilibrium as an important part of the wider Lloyd’s market. Underwriters’ ability to assess price and aggregate risk has also come on by leaps and bounds, which gives us confidence in the class,” he added.
Markel Promotes Gordge to Head of Terrorism in London
Markel, the insurance operations within Markel Group Inc., has promoted Chloe Gordge to head of Terrorism in London, effective immediately.
Gordge joined the organization as an underwriting assistant more than 11 years ago, during which time she has driven exceptional quality, results, and customer service on an international level, Markel said.
One of her notable achievements was launching Markel’s Active Assailant product offering for US-domiciled business, which involved drafting the wording and developing a rating tool for US clients.
In her new position, Gordge will lead the day-to-day running of Markel’s London Terrorism portfolio. She will have responsibility for leading and implementing the team’s underwriting strategy, centered on developing market-leading insurance solutions for brokers and their clients in an increasingly, unpredictable threat landscape.
Gordge will continue reporting to Ed Winter, director of Terrorism in London, at Markel.

Topics
Catastrophe
Natural Disasters
Cyber
Underwriting
London
AIG
