iprism Underwriting, the specialist commercial, property and high net worth MGA, has added property/casualty insurance company AmTrust to its property owners panel as broker demand for specialist property owners cover increases.
The new relationship allows iprism to offer brokers a greater choice of rated insurers, competitive pricing and a wider underwriting footprint for occupant types.  It is also enhanced with a new approach to address mapping, which broadens e-trade acceptance rates giving brokers a fast response on new quotes.
The MGA has a range of solutions for property owners including commercial, residential and unoccupied properties, all backed by UK-based rated capacity.  The addition of AmTrust to the property owners panel is part of a drive to strengthen this range of products and give brokers more choice.
“We’ve seen a significant increase in quotes on property owners’ products from brokers and have responded by building out our panel of insurers, ensuring that our brokers benefit from a greater choice of cover and more competitive pricing. Our years of expertise and in-house delegated authority means that we can quickly respond to brokers and find them the right cover at the right price,” commented Ian Lloyd, CEO at iprism.
“We are committed to building our presence in the UK and see MGAs like iprism as an important route into that market.  iprism has a strong broker following and great distribution and we’re looking forward to building a strong, profitable partnership over the coming years,” said Hannah Connolly, property underwriting manager at AmTrust.
London-based iprism Underwriting is a management owned, wholesale MGA that uses in-house technology to deliver a range of insurance products to UK brokers. Operating a proprietary insurance brokerage platform, with support from a team of expert underwriters, iprism provides access to a range of specialist insurance products for commercial and private clients, all backed by a panel of UK-based rated insurers.
Source: iprism Underwriting

Topics
Insurance Wholesale
Property
