Chubb Global Mkts Promotes O’Brien to Head of Cargo
Chubb announced the appointment of Alex O’Brien as head of Cargo for Chubb Global Markets (CGM), the company’s London Market wholesale and specialty business including its Lloyd’s platform.
In his new role, O’Brien will be responsible for leading the development and management of the CGM Cargo portfolio. He is based in London and reports to David Kirk, head of Marine for CGM. The appointment is effective immediately.
O’Brien, previously deputy head of Cargo, first joined CGM’s Marine team in 2015 as an underwriting assistant. He succeeds Kirk, who retained his cargo product head responsibilities on an interim basis following his promotion to head of Marine in July.
O’Brien’s appointment as Head of Cargo forms part of the wider growth and development of the Marine team within CGM, including the recent hire of Chris Turberville as head of Hull.
AXIS Promotes Maher to Head of Cyber and Technology, London
AXIS Capital Holdings Ltd. announced that Andy Maher has been appointed head of Cyber and Technology, London.
In his new role, Maher leads the London-based team of underwriters, and will focus on developing the team and enhancing the range of products and services that are offered globally to distribution partners and customers.
He reports to Dan Trueman, head of Global Cyber and Technology at AXIS.
Maher joined AXIS in 2018 as a senior cyber underwriter before becoming head of Large Accounts for Cyber in North America and then being appointed deputy chief underwriting officer, Cyber and Technology, in December 2021. Before joining AXIS, he held cyber underwriting positions with Markel and Beazley.
“Andy has made a considerable contribution in the four years since he joined our Global Cyber and Technology team as an experienced cyber specialist, first as senior underwriter, then progressing to leadership roles in both our North America and London operations,” said Trueman. “Above all, Andy is passionate about continuing to build a team and service levels that can best support our broker partners and customers in this exciting marketplace and I’m delighted he has accepted this role.”

Topics
Cyber
Tech
Trucking
London
Chubb
