Price Forbes, the London-based broker, has announced three key appointments in Turkey and a rebranding of its local business. Gökçen Süer has been named chairman & CEO of Price Forbes Turkey while Ali Arısoy was appointed chief broking officer and Ercan Eryaşar has become chief sales officer.
Gökçen Süer brings more than 25 years wholesale and reinsurance broking experience to Price Forbes Türkiye, said Price Forbes in a Feb. 5 announcement. His previous roles include founder of Türkiye’s first wholesale broker, GRC Re, chairman of Howden Sigorta and GRC Howden Re. Price Forbe said his appointment marks a pivotal step in Price Forbes’ strategy to strengthen its footprint in the region.
Besso Sigorta, which has been operating in the Turkish market for over a decade, will now rebrand to Price Forbes Türkiye. Süer will spearhead the rebrand and lead the company’s expansion into Türkiye, the Middle East, and the CIS regions. The company will expand its services to offer a broader range of wholesale and reinsurance broking solutions, providing expertise in complex and industrial risks, specialty solutions, and treaty reinsurance.
In a Feb. 20 announcement, Price Forbes Türkiye said that Ali Arısoy was appointed chief broking officer, bringing 15 years of experience in reinsurance to the company. Arisoy began his career as a project manager for a global EPC company, overseeing the construction, planning, and operations of several industrial-scale power plants.
With his technical background, he played an instrumental role in establishing VHV Reasürans, the first Turkish FDI reinsurer. During his tenure at VHV Reasürans, he held various leadership positions and played a key role in developing the Engineering, Specialty, Treaty, and Retrocession departments from the ground up. His underwriting responsibilities spanned 38 countries across the CEE, MENA, and CIS regions.
In a separate Feb. 20 press release, Price Forbes Türkiye said Ercan Eryaşar has been named chief sales officer.
Eryaşar brings 29 years of industry experience and deep expertise in wholesale and reinsurance broking to this newly created role. His career includes leadership roles at Mapfre Sigorta Türkiye, where he spent 25 years pioneering engineering insurance and serving as deputy general manager, overseeing non-auto underwriting, claims, and corporate marketing. In 2020, he transitioned to Howden Türkiye, where he served as COO for two years and CEO for two and a half years. He is also a certified loss adjuster in engineering and property fields.
Price Forbes Turkey is the latest addition to Price Forbes’ global network, bringing its expertise in open market insurance to clients in Turkey and the surrounding region, the company said. London-based Price Forbes, which is part of The Ardonagh Group, manages over $6 billion in gross written premium with a global team of 2,500 colleagues.