AXIS Capital Holdings Ltd. announced that it has launched AXIS Wholesale, a new division dedicated specifically to servicing the wholesale market.
The division is being led by Carlton Maner who has been appointed as CEO, AXIS Wholesale, reporting directly to AXIS Specialty Insurance and Reinsurance CEO Vincent Tizzio. This appointment expands Maner’s prior responsibilities as CEO, U.S. Division.
The company announced in June that it was exiting property reinsurance to focus instead on casualty, specialty, accident and health, and credit lines.
“AXIS has operated in the wholesale space since our inception, and with the launch of AXIS Wholesale we’re leaning into what we do best,” said Maner. “Through the new Wholesale division, we’re introducing dedicated teams and resources focused specifically on the wholesale channel. This speaks to our ambition to grow profitably with our customers as we introduce new products and services designed directly to meet their needs.”
“The creation of our dedicated Wholesale division aligns directly with our company-wide focus on advancing our existing leadership position in specialty,” said Tizzio. “It reflects our deep commitment to the wholesale channel and our focus on delivering great service to our customers while enabling them to leverage the full strength and breadth of our global platform.”
AXIS Wholesale will include a combination of AXIS teams and personnel as well as additional personnel dedicated to the Wholesale division and future products to be introduced in the months ahead.
The Wholesale division will include the following existing business units: E&S Property; Primary Casualty & Excess Casualty; Programs; Design Professionals & Environmental; Wholesale broker-produced Commercial Management Solutions (CMS); and Wholesale broker-produced Financial Institutions (FI).
In addition, the following AXIS executives have been appointed to new roles: Doug Wordekemper, as AXIS Wholesale head of Financial Lines, reporting to Maner; Nathan Fisk, as AXIS Wholesale CMS Unit leader, reporting to Wordekemper; and Christina Geller, as AXIS Wholesale FI Unit leader, also reporting to Mr. Wordekemper.
Source: AXIS Capital