This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Liberty Specialty Markets, Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance, and CNA Canada.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Liberty Specialty Promotes Clark for Financial Risk Solutions
Liberty Specialty Markets (LSM), part of Liberty Mutual Insurance Group, announced the promotion of Adam Clark to the role of senior underwriter – Financial Risk Solutions, effective immediately. Clark reports to Sam Wilde, head of London Markets – FRS, and is based in London.
In his new role, Clark will support the further development of LSM’s Short Term Trade Finance business, enhancing the unit’s underwriting capabilities and further strengthening broker relationships. He will also continue to engage with industry developments in digitisation to bolster LSM’s execution and portfolio management in this line of business.
“Adam has been instrumental in the evolution of LSM’s Short Term Trade Finance business. He has made significant strides in expanding our client base, broker relationships, operational processes, and written premium. Both our clients and brokers will benefit from Adam’s ongoing focus on this dynamic segment of our business,” Commented Wilde.
Prior to his promotion he was an underwriter – Financial Risk Solutions. Clark joined LSM in 2018 from Nexus CIFS, where he was an underwriter.
BHSI Promotes Hannoun as Head of Middle East Casualty
Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI) announced it has promoted Mohammed Hannoun as head of Casualty for the Middle East, based in Dubai.
“Mohammed has played a pivotal role in building up BHSI’s casualty capabilities in Middle East since we started the Dubai operations in 2018. His extensive experience in the region, especially in driving the growth of our medical malpractice and Defense Base Act (DBA) offerings, will be essential in positioning BHSI as the go-to carrier for casualty lines in the Middle East,” said Neeraj Yadvendu, Head of Third Party Lines at BHSI in Dubai.
Mohammed, who has more than 12 years of industry experience in the region, joined the BHSI Dubai team in 2018 as a senior casualty underwriter. He takes the reins of BHSI’s Middle East casualty portfolio from Emir Erdur, who has transitioned to the casualty underwriting team at BHSI UK.
Hannoun can be reached at mohammed.hannoun@bhspecialty.com.
CNA Canada Names DeBruyn as Regional VP, Western Region
CNA Canada announced that Rick DeBruyn, currently regional vice president Prairie Region, has assumed an expanded leadership role as regional vice president Western Region, which includes the company’s Winnipeg, Calgary and Vancouver offices.
In this new role, DeBruyn will be responsible for talent development, portfolio management, and financial and operating performance across the whole of Western Canada. He will also lead CNA Canada’s teams in delivering compelling insurance solutions to clients and fostering strong partner relationships across the region.
DeBruyn has served as CNA’s regional vice president for the Prairies since 2015. Under DeBruyn’s leadership, the Prairie Region has enjoyed exceptional team engagement and delivered strong performance.
Nick Creatura, president and CEO of CNA Canada, commented: “This expanded role will encourage broader collaboration across the whole of the Western Region and positions us well to achieve our goals. Rick’s regional leadership experience and underwriting expertise, along with his empathetic and collaborative leadership style, will lead to even greater success across the Western Region. I am delighted to see Rick taking on this broader role.”

Topics
Excess Surplus
Canada
Casualty
