Beazley, the London-based specialty insurer, announced the creation of an integrated cyber risk management company, Beazley Security, formed from the merger of its in-house Cyber Services team and its wholly owned cyber security company, Lodestone.
Beazley Security will be led by Alton Kizziah, currently CEO of Lodestone, and he will report to Paul Bantick, Beazley’s global head of Cyber Risks.
The new company integrates the risk management services provided as part of a Beazley cyber insurance policy with Lodestone’s technical cyber security services. Beazley Security will offer integrated cyber preparedness and response capabilities and invest in new services such as a managed eXtended Detection and Response (mXDR) solution which provides round the clock monitoring, enabling rapid identification and containment of threats.
“We live in an era of accelerating cyber risk and by combining these two experts in cyber security and insurance, we are creating a force capable of addressing the challenges head on,” commented Bantick. “I am looking forward to working with Alton and the team to support our clients in an ever more seamless and effective way.”
Alton Kizziah, CEO of Beazley Security said: “Building cyber resilience is top of mind for business leaders and Beazley Security has been created to bring responsive cyber protections to the heart of the fight against ever-evolving threats. I’m excited to lead an outstanding team of specialists committed to providing clients with confidence and peace of mind.”
About Beazley
Beazley plc is the parent company of specialist insurance businesses with operations in Europe, United States, Canada, Latin America and Asia. Beazley manages seven Lloyd’s syndicates and, in 2022, underwrote gross premiums worldwide of $5.3 billion.
In the admitted market, coverage is provided by Beazley Insurance Co. Inc., licensed in all 50 states. In the surplus lines market, coverage is provided by the Beazley Excess and Surplus Insurance Inc. and the Beazley syndicates at Lloyd’s. Beazley’s European insurance company, Beazley Insurance dac, is regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland.

Topics
Cyber
