This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Arch Insurance, Canopius, and Willis Towers Watson (WTW).
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Arch Promotes Blois to U/W Manager, Hires 3 PI Underwriters
Arch Insurance’s UK Regional Division announced the promotion of Kirsty Blois to underwriting manager, Miscellaneous and Emerging Professional Indemnity (PI).
In her new role, Blois is responsible for managing Arch’s miscellaneous PI book of business and developing its broker relationships. Blois reports to Martin Joyce, head of Financial Lines, UK Regions.
Before joining Arch in 2022, Blois was a senior underwriter for miscellaneous PI at Hiscox and senior commercial account handler and team leader at The Oval Group (now Gallagher).
Arch has also appointed three new underwriting practitioners within its PI team: Hayley Bilas and Timothy Rolph as development underwriters, PI, and Joshua Woods as Underwriter, PI.
Bilas joins Arch from Liberty Speciality Markets, where she was most recently a regional PI underwriter. Rolph joins from Hiscox, where he was a development underwriter for Event Insurance. Woods joins from Travelers, where he was a PI Underwriter.
“Following the recent success of launching several financial lines products, including miscellaneous PI and D&O, we are keen to build on our considerable market momentum. Kirsty’s well-earned promotion and the appointments of Hayley, Tim and Josh demonstrate our commitment to boosting our market presence and delivering on our broker promise to be collaborative, responsive, and to deliver informed solutions,” commented Joyce.
Canopius Names CFC’s Gayle as Cyber & Tech U/W
Canopius, a leading global specialty re/insurer, has appointed Lewis Gayle as underwriter – Cyber and Technology, reporting to Michael Shen, head of Cyber and Technology, London.
Lewis joins with immediate effect, bringing Canopius’ rapidly expanding cyber division to 36 employees, including 10 new hires since the start of the year, marking an increase of 38% in just over six months.
Lewis brings five years of London market experience to Canopius, having previously held underwriting and claims adjustment roles at CFC Underwriting. Before this, he was a claims advocate at Marsh, an assistant underwriter at QBE and a junior claims advocate at Willis Towers Watson.
Lewis is the latest in a series of appointments for Canopius’ cyber team this year, including:
Canopius launched the first digital asset custody product on the Lloyd’s Asia platform earlier this year, combining cyber, specie and crime expertise. Shen said Canopius’ cyber business has increased by 38% in the last six months.
Canopius is a global specialty re/insurer with underwriting operations in Australia, Bermuda, China, Singapore, the UK, and the U.S. It underwrites through Lloyd’s Syndicate 4444 (managed by Canopius Managing Agents Ltd.); Canopius US Insurance Inc. (a U.S. surplus lines insurer), and Canopius Reinsurance Ltd., (a Bermuda-based Class 4 Insurer).
WTW Taps Sales From Aon for Large Client GB Team
WTW, the global advisory, broking, and solutions company, announced the appointment of Claire Sales to the Large Client GB team, reporting into David Cross, head of Large Clients in GB. Sales will be based in London.
Sales has over 25 years of insurance and legal experience across financial lines business and joins WTW from Aon, where she spent the last eight years, most recently leading the Retail Financial Services Group.
Sales will be responsible for leading some of WTW’s large client relationships in Financial Institutions as well as delivering the broad suite of WTW solutions to WTW’s key clients.

Topics
Cyber
Underwriting
Aon
Willis Towers Watson
