BMS, the London-based independent specialty re/insurance broker, announced that BMS Iberia has signed a deal to acquire Seguros Viafina (Viafina), the Spanish specialty insurance and reinsurance broker.
The acquisition is set to complete in February 2023, with BMS acquiring Viafina in full, subject to regulatory approval by the Dirección General de Seguros y Fondos de Pensiones (DGSFP).
The terms of the transaction were not disclosed.
Headquartered in Seville and with offices in Madrid, Viafina’s clients range from listed multinational corporations to SMEs. From its outset, Viafina has concentrated on construction as well as renewable energy insurance, helping projects come to fruition through effective risk management services. Viafina is also a specialist in surety insurance, advising companies on international guarantees, helping them with projects and on public tenders globally.
Gonzalo Camacho, CEO of Viafina, will report to Fernando Claro, CEO of BMS Iberia and will also retain his Europe-wide surety view. Gonzalo will join as surety managing director and become a member of the Executive Committee of BMS Iberia.
This acquisition serves as a continuation of BMS’ long term strategic plans for the Iberian region, building on its existing presence and adding further capabilities and infrastructure to BMS’ offering.
“Our acquisition of Viafina marks a continuation of our investment in the Iberian region. The team has a broad range of experience working with both the national and international markets and an extensive knowledge of the construction sector, renewable energy sector and of surety insurance,” commented Claro.
“As always, our priority is to ensure that we are offering the highest quality service to our clients – Viafina has that same drive and passion. We’re incredibly excited to partner with another entrepreneurial firm, that adds considerable expertise to BMS,” he added.
“We take great pride in our ability to work alongside our clients – to ensure that we offer products tailored to their individual needs. Our objective has always been to provide a specialized service that generates added value and satisfaction for our clients,” Camacho said.
Source: BMS

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
