BMS Group, the London-based independent specialist re/insurance broker, has entered into an agreement to acquire West Australian specialist broker Western United Financial Services (WUFS).
The terms of the transaction have not been disclosed.
WUFS was founded in 2002 and offers tailored insurance broking, risk management and claims handling services. The company advises on the full range of general insurance products as well as offering risk management solutions including the design, development, training and implementation of workers’ compensation, injury management and workplace health and safety systems.
WUFS is headed by Brett Waterman who has over 40 years of experience in the industry and is an owner of WUFS. Waterman was also a former president of the National Insurance Brokers Association (NIBA) in Western Australia.
This announcement follows a number of recent acquisitions by BMS as they look to grow their operations in Australia. The transaction is also in line with BMS’ global strategy to deepen their experience in speciality lines within chosen markets.
BMS will acquire WUFS in full, with all staff and infrastructure transferring into BMS’ existing Australian business.
Waterman will remain in a leadership role after the acquisition and will lead the BMS business in Western Australia.
“The acquisition of Western United Financial Services presents another step in the expansion of BMS in Australia and, as well as providing us with more depth in some specialties, it also gives us access to additional ones such as hospitality and transport. Brett and his team have built up a very successful and well-respected business and we look forward to working with them in the future,” commented Andrew Godden, chief executive of BMS’ Australian business.
“This is an exciting transition for WUFS as BMS is a partner that shares very similar values and, like us, is committed to ensuring all our clients are valued and that a commitment to service excellence is paramount,” said Waterman. “This deal will provide us with the advantages that come with being part of a global speciality broking organisation with significant risk expertise, depth of market knowledge and highly regarded technology platforms.”
Source: BMS

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
Australia
