Markel Int’l Names Green as Head of Underwriting Risk, Higgins as Head of Cat Mgmt
Markel International, a subsidiary of Markel Corp., has named Andrew Green as head of underwriting risk, with Emma Higgins taking over from Green as head of catastrophe management. Green and Higgins took up their roles in October. Higgins was previously catastrophe risk manager at Markel International.
Working in alignment with the Catastrophe Management, Actuarial, Risk Management, and Underwriting teams, Green will be responsible for managing and mitigating volatility in Markel’s portfolio. He will report to Nick Line, chief underwriting officer at Markel International.
Higgins will lead the catastrophe management team focused on providing individual and portfolio risk insights across its products. She will report to Guenter Kryszon, global executive underwriting officer, Property, at Markel.
Green brings more than 15 years of insurance experience, having joined Markel in 2014 as head of catastrophe management, where he was instrumental in expanding the team’s remit to include a diverse range of products – from cyber to terrorism. Prior to joining Markel, Green was at Tokio Marine Kiln for six years, latterly as the deputy head of exposure management. He started his career as a catastrophe modelling analyst at Catlin in 2006.
Higgins has been with Markel for over six years and started as a senior catastrophe analyst in 2016. She was promoted to catastrophe risk manager in 2019. Prior to joining Markel, she was an assistant catastrophe risk analyst at Travelers Insurance Co.
“The work the catastrophe management team produces at Markel continues to be a great source of identifying potential risk and I hope to leverage the knowledge and expertise in that team, whilst collaborating with the other functions across the business. My aim in this role is to ensure we uphold our embedded risk culture, robust controls, and strong risk framework which will not only result in good underwriting decisions but in turn, also help Markel achieve its growth ambitions,” according to Green.
“I’m grateful for the opportunities available at Markel and the ability to progress my career in an environment that values its employees. I am looking forward to leading and supporting the brilliant work that the catastrophe management team does whilst guiding the team to ensure we are aligned with the business’ growth strategy,” commented Higgins.
Fidelis Promotes 3 Senior Leaders Mathias, Bellamy and Davern
Bermuda-based Fidelis Insurance has announced three senior promotions, effective immediately.
Charles Mathias has been promoted to deputy chairman. He was most recently director of underwriting, having started at the company in the role of chief risk officer and has nearly four decades of broking and underwriting experience. He is also an executive director of the Fidelis Group. He joined Fidelis in 2015 from Lancashire where he was latterly chief risk officer. Prior to 2005, he held a number of roles with brokers and MGAs in London, the U.S. and Mexico.
Matthew Bellamy has been promoted to director of Underwriting, replacing Mathias. Prior to this, he was head of FUL Property Reinsurance at Fidelis. He has more than 15 years of underwriting experience and prior to joining Fidelis in 2019 was head of Property Treaty and deputy active underwriter at Lloyd’s Acapella Syndicate.
Michael Davern has been appointed as a member of the Executive Committee. Davern has grown the portfolio to be a lead market in the direct and facultative (D&F) property sector. He has over 20 years’ experience in the industry holding various roles within underwriting and actuarial. He joined Fidelis from AXA XL where he spent more than 10 years, most recently as an underwriting manager writing open market and delegated authority business.
“I am delighted to be able to promote Matt and Michael as valuable members of our core team. They have been instrumental in developing our business, and I look forward to working with them more closely as we continue to grow,” commented Richard Brindle, chairman and group chief executive officer and chief underwriting officer of Fidelis.
“I have worked with Charlie since 2005 and am happy to give him the recognition of the role he plays as an ambassador and adviser across all aspects of our company. This is a very exciting time for Fidelis and we are committed to developing our colleagues to help us forge ahead.”

Topics
Leadership
