This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Ryan Specialty and Howden Re.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Ryan Specialty Underwriting Managers Int’l Names Birrell Exec Chair, Montgomery as CEO
Ryan Specialty, the Chicago-based specialty insurance services firm, announced the appointments of Mark Birrell to executive chairman and James Montgomery to chief executive officer of Ryan Specialty Underwriting Managers International, effective Jan. 1, 2025. Both of these executives are based in RSUM International’s London headquarters.
Birrell, previously chairman and CEO of Castel Underwriting Agencies, joined Ryan Specialty via acquisition, assuming the role of chairman and CEO of RSUM International. Birrell is an entrepreneur and insurtech innovator with over 45 years of experience within the insurance industry. His first 20 years were dedicated to the Lloyd’s broking community, which was followed by his entrepreneurial dedication to found both Wildnet Group and Castel Underwriting Agencies.
Montgomery has been with Ryan Specialty since 2016 when he joined the firm’s transactional risk managing general underwriter, Ryan Transactional Risk (RTR). Montgomery is currently a managing director of Ryan Transactional Risk and has been instrumental in the growth and global consolidation of the RTR platform. He joined the insurance industry in 2011, initially with the law firm Kennedys and subsequently with QBE, underwriting financial institutions and mergers & acquisitions products.
“The appointments of Mark and Monty reinforce our commitment to expand our executive team and platform to meet our clients’ needs and international growth ambitions,” commented Miles Wuller, president and CEO of Ryan Specialty Underwriting Managers.
“Mark and Monty are colleagues and executives each with exceptional track records of building, innovating and executing on growth initiatives at the highest level. We are confident they will integrate and continue to scale the exceptional talent and resources of RSUM International, Castel and Innovisk and accelerate our international expansion,” Wuller added.
Ryan Specialty completed the acquisition of Innovisk Capital Partners from Abry Partners and BHMS Investments in November. In a separate deal, it purchased Castel Underwriting Agencies from Arch Financial Holdings (UK) Ltd. in May 2024.
Howden Re Taps Aon’s Kroely as Managing Director for Continental Europe
Howden Re, the reinsurance and risk advisory arm of insurance broker Howden, announce the appointment of Thomas Kroely as managing director, Continental Europe.
Kroely initially will focus on supporting the European expansion of Howden Re, turning his attention to building a team locally following the completion of contractual commitments next year.
Kroely will bring a wealth of experience to this role, having most recently served as client reinsurance director at Aon. Previously, he was at Willis Re in London and Paris for over a decade, starting as a reinsurance broker in the Alternative Solutions team for Continental Europe and ending his tenure at Willis Re as head of France, Belgium, and Luxembourg.
Kroely began his career as a cat modeler and actuary at Brit Insurance and as a financial analyst trainee at Generali France.
“It is with great pleasure that we announce that Thomas will be joining our team. His outstanding track record and deep expertise make him an invaluable addition as we expand our footprint in Europe,” commented Tobias Andersson, head of Continental Europe, Howden Re International.

Topics
Excess Surplus
Underwriting
Europe
Maryland
Aon
