Kevin J. Rehnberg, chief executive officer of Argo Group International Holdings Ltd., announced on March 2, 2022 that he would be temporarily unable to perform his duties for health reasons.
Effective March 3, 2022, Thomas A. Bradley, who served on Argo’s board of directors since 2018, including as chairman since 2020, assumed Rehnberg’s authority, duties and responsibilities as CEO, according to a March 7 filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Bradley retired from Allied World Assurance Company Holdings AG in July 2017 where he had served as chief financial officer and executive vice president since 2012. Previously, he was executive vice president and chief financial officer for two other public companies, Fair Isaac Corp. and the St. Paul Cos., said his biography on the Argo website.
Bradley also has held senior financial and operational positions at Zurich Insurance Group, including chief financial officer for North America and chief executive officer of the Universal Underwriters Group (now Zurich Direct Markets).
He currently serves on the board of directors for Horace Mann Educators Corp. and previously served on the board of directors for Nuveen Investments Inc.
Bradley received a bachelor’s degree in accounting from the University of Maryland and a master’s in business administration from Loyola University of Maryland and is a Certified Public Accountant (inactive).
“We all wish Kevin the best as he focuses on restoring his health,” said a letter from Bradley sent to Argo employees on March 7. “He has made great progress toward transforming Argo Group over the past few years. The board of directors has absolute confidence in the strong leadership team Kevin has assembled and is impressed by the continued commitment among all employees across the company.”
Source: Argo Group