This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Aon and the London market’s electronic trading platform, PPL.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Aon Promotes Goosen as Head of Professional Services, London Global Broking Centre
Insurance broker Aon plc announced the promotion of Alicia Goosen to head of its Professional Services Group, in the Global Broking Centre. Goosen will be based in London and will report into Aon’s head of Product Specialties & Financial & Professional Services Group, John Brosnan.
In her new role, Goosen will work alongside local and international teams to support Aon’s professional services growth within the London market. She will be responsible for accelerating the development of market-leading, specialist solutions to address the dynamic needs of law, accounting, consulting, and design firms.
Goosen has been at Aon since 2011 and previously worked as the head of Commercial Risk and chief broking officer for Aon in South Africa. Prior to this, Goosen led the Financial & Professional Services Group locally and spent more than 15 years at Marsh, where she worked as a divisional executive.
“Alicia brings extensive leadership experience to the role, and it is fantastic to see that we can mobilise such high calibre talent globally across the organisation. Her expertise and principal role in overseeing a large broking team and experience of direct client management, will be highly valuable in the new post,” commented Brosnan.
Mason Named Chief Exec of London’s Electronic Trading Platform PPL
John Mason has been appointed as the new chief executive of PPL, the London market’s electronic trading platform. Mason will take up his role in April, succeeding interim CEO Joe Gordon, whose tenure will end following a handover period.
Mason was group head of Platform for the London Stock Exchange until recently. Prior to joining LSEG, he ran the European Enterprise Solutions for Bloomberg and also led Thomson Reuters’ response to MiFiD II and other regulatory and market structure initiatives.
“Following what’s been a very competitive recruitment process, I’m delighted we’ve been able to attract someone of John’s calibre to lead PPL,” according to Steve Hearn, PPL’s chairman.
“John Mason is someone who’s been immersed in successful transformative projects across a range of financial services. During his career, he has acquired exceptional experience of data platform capabilities and operations. He’s uniquely placed to lead PPL’s digital transformation and to enable the London Market to realise the power and value of the data it holds.”
Hearn offered his thanks to interim CEO Gordon, who joined PPL last year.
“It’s fair to say that under Joe’s leadership PPL has successfully transitioned to a business set for growth,” Hearn said. “Delivering a new technology architecture, strengthening collaboration with market bodies and defining a transformative strategy, means PPL can be the market enabler to unlock the commercial benefits of digitisation. His vision and his contribution have been invaluable.”

Topics
Aon
London
