Aston Lark Ireland, a Howden company, announced the acquisition of Pembroke Insurances Ltd.
Set up by Graham Weir and John McGuire, Pembroke Insurances has been providing commercial insurance solutions since 2007 and has grown to be a trusted name within the Irish insurance sector, serving a broad spectrum of clients throughout the country.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
“We have known Graham, Paul and the Pembroke Insurances team for a long time. They have always shared our vision and culture for insurance broking due to their commitment to delivering outstanding service and building much-valued relationships with clients and insurers alike,” commented Robert Kennedy, CEO of Aston Lark Ireland.
“Our sights are firmly focused on being the broker of choice in Ireland, and the acquisition of Pembroke Insurances today is another step forward in realising that ambition,” he added.
“We are delighted to be joining the Aston Lark family of companies. We feel that we have a shared ethos and goals and that this move will further strengthen our ability to provide world-class service and value to our customers while retaining our culture,” according to Graham Weir, managing director of Dublin-based Pembroke Insurances.
“Since Pembroke was set up in 2007, we have steadily developed our customer and insurer relations, and joining the Aston Lark group makes sense as the next logical step on our journey,” Weir continued.
Paul Murphy, Pembroke Insurances director, said: “We are excited about entering this next phase of our journey and would like to assure all our customers and staff of our continued dedication to providing the best service. With the shared ethos and culture between Pembroke and Aston Lark and joining a larger company, we can further enhance our service and offering to our customers.”
Source: Aston Lark Ireland

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
