Howden, the London-based insurance intermediary group, announced it has acquired Curran Connolly & Co. (Drogheda) Ltd., the commercial and personal lines insurance broker based in County Louth, Ireland.
Financial details of the transaction were not disclosed.
This transaction follows Howden’s recent acquisition of Intersure, a brokerage firm also located in Drogheda and cements Howden Ireland’s presence in the north east of the country.
Founded in 1980 in Drogheda, County Louth, Curran Connolly & Co. (Drogheda) Ltd. is led by directors Joe Murphy and Noel McGoldrick and is a member of Brokers Ireland, the country’s leading trade body for insurance brokers. The company provides a range of insurance products and services to both individual and commercial clients and specialises in the transport and haulage sector, and also serves the manufacturing, hospitality, and construction industries nationwide.
“This acquisition underscores our commitment to furthering Howden’s foothold in the north east, strengthening our ambition to become the local broker of choice across Ireland. We look forward to working with the team to introduce comprehensive solutions across commercial, personal lines, life and pensions, health insurance, and mortgages to clients in the North-East of Ireland,” commented Robert Kennedy, CEO, Howden Ireland.
Founded in 1994, Howden provides re/insurance broking and underwriting services and solutions to clients ranging from individuals to the largest multinational companies. The group operates in 55 countries across Europe, Africa, Asia, the Middle East, Latin America, the USA, Australia and New Zealand, employing 17,000 people and handling $38 billion of premium on behalf of clients.
Source: Howden

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
