This edition of International People Moves details appointments at TigerRisk, Gallagher Re and BMS Re.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
TigerRisk Hires Aon’s Rosenberg for ILS Team
TigerRisk Partners LLC, the Stamford, Conn.-based re/insurance broker, announced the appointment of Mitchell Rosenberg as partner and managing director of its investment banking division, TigerRisk Capital Markets & Advisory (TCMA).
Based in New York, Rosenberg will report to Philipp Kusche, global head of ILS & Capital Solutions.
Rosenberg joins TigerRisk from Aon, where he held the role of managing director at Aon Securities and was responsible for several of the industry’s leading ILS platforms across the reinsurance, insurance, commercial and public sectors. Prior to that, he was an assistant vice president at Swiss Re, advising global insurance companies on structured reinsurance solutions to support M&A, capital management and other strategic transactions.
Kusche said Rosenberg will help to continue the build out of TCMA’s ILS platform, focused on catastrophe bonds and other ILS and capital market products.
Gallagher Re Appoints Delacroix in France
Gallagher Re, the global reinsurance broker, has appointed Alexandre Delacroix to the role of executive director within its EMEA West & South team, effective immediately. Based in Paris, Delacroix will focus on a range of capital market activities, including insurance-linked securities (ILS) and collateralized reinsurance, and thus be part of Gallagher Re’s specialist ILS and capital markets unit, Gallagher Securities.
An actuary by profession, Delacroix brings to Gallagher Re a wealth of capital markets and reinsurance experience across both the property/casualty and life sectors, and in both traditional and non-traditional solutions. He has a track record of originating, structuring and executing a broad range of transactions.
Delacroix joins Gallagher Re from Natixis Corporate & Investment Banking where he served as a director within the Bank, Insurance and Fund Solutions team, developing solutions for the re/insurance and ILS industry. Prior to joining Natixis, he worked for NewRe, part of the Munich Re group, as a financial solutions structurer and a casualty underwriter.
BMS Re Taps Carpenter’s Torres-Ortíz for Caribbean Facultative Business
BMS Group, the independent specialist re/insurance broker, announced the appointment of Germán Torres-Ortíz as managing director and head of Caribbean facultative business for BMS Re Latin America and Caribbean (LAC), effective Aug. 29, 2022. Based in Miami, he will report to Aidan Pope, CEO and executive chairman for LAC at BMS Re.
Torres-Ortíz will focus on expanding BMS Re’s facultative presence in the Caribbean region. He joins BMS Re from his most recent role as a senior vice president at Carpenter Marsh Fac Re Latin America.
Prior to this, he spent seven years with Assurant in a leadership role, developing new products and conducting feasibility studies across multiple markets in the region. Torres-Ortíz also held several senior roles at AIG, including spending four years in Chile as commercial lines director, spearheading significant annual growth and profitability.

Topics
Aon
A.J. Gallagher
