Sichuan’s worst drought in more than a half century spurred the Chinese province to extend industrial power cuts and activate its highest emergency response, adding to manufacturers’ woes as they shut down factories in the region.
Temperatures above 40 degrees Celsius (104 degrees Fahrenheit) and scant rainfall, along with surging demand for air conditioning, have caused gaps in power supply, the southwestern province said in a statement. Officials extended an order that curtails electricity to some industrial users to Aug. 25 from Aug. 20 originally, according to company announcements.
“Sichuan is now facing the hottest temperatures and the worst drought of the past 60 years,” Morgan Stanley analyst Simon Lee said in a Sunday research note. Rainfall along the Yangtze River since July is 45% below normal, the lowest since 1961.
Higher demand fueled by scorching temperatures across China is also threatening wider disruptions, with factories in Jiangsu and Chongqing facing outages and outdoor lighting switched off on Shanghai’s The Bund waterfront. Wuhan temporarily halted its famous Yangtze River light show last week.
The extreme weather in China is worsening a global power crunch and squeezing commodity supplies at a time when nations are struggling to cope with the upheavals caused by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Beyond Asia, droughts and heat waves are causing damage from Arizona to the Rhine, bringing into sharp focus the repercussions of climate change.
The drought also comes as Chinese companies are already contending with Beijing’s adherence to COVID Zero, which includes sudden lockdowns. The power shortages are now threatening supplies of everything from grains and aluminum to battery materials used in electric vehicles.
Sichuan has halted its entire aluminum capacity of 1 million tons due to power shortages, according to a survey from researcher Mysteel.
The broader impact on China’s economy, though, is expected to be smaller than in 2021, when outages were more widespread and soaring coal prices discouraged power plants from increasing output.
“We expect this round of power rationing to affect industrial production on a limited scale,” China International Capital Corp. analysts including Zheng Yuchi wrote in a note last week.
Sichuan, which relies on hydropower for 82% of its power generation, is bearing the brunt of the drought. Daily hydropower generation has plunged by 51%, and reservoir levels are at 1.2 billion cubic meters of water, down by 4 billion from last year, Morgan Stanley’s Lee said.
For the rest of the country, thermal energy remains the major source of electricity supply. Coal output has increased significantly this year as policymakers learned the lesson from last year’s chaos. But more provinces will face power shortages due to a lag in capacity expansion and insufficient grid connection, according to a report by the China Electric Power Planning and Engineering Institute.
While Sichuan accounts for less than 5% of China’s economy, it encompasses a region with a similar population to Germany and an economy bigger than Turkey. It’s a key manufacturing hub for electric vehicle batteries and solar panels.
Sichuan produces around 20% of lithium and 13% of polysilicon in China, according to Larry Hu, head of China economics at Macquarie Securities Ltd.
“The ongoing power rationing could result in a temporary disruption in supply chain,” he wrote in a note last week. “It could then translate into higher costs of electronic products such as electric-car batteries, but the impact should be short-lived.”
Toyota Motor Corp. said it was gradually restarting production at its plant in Chengdu on Monday. The Japanese car maker was among the companies shutting down output in the region last week.
Chang’An Shenlan, a unit of Chang’An Auto that is based in Sichuan’s neighboring Chongqing, told its customers that the company and main suppliers will suspend production between Aug. 15 and 24, according to a statement on its user app.
Jinko Solar Co., one of the world’s largest solar module manufacturers, said two of its plants in Sichuan are running at protective levels. The company said it is unclear when the units could resume full capacity and the limit will have an impact on its earnings.
This is the first time Sichuan initiated a top-level emergency response after it introduced an energy supply contingency plan in January. Measures in the plan include starting emergency generators to first meet power demand of households, important users and regions, and maximizing output of oil, gas and coal.
Peak electricity demand in Sichuan has jumped to 65 gigawatts, a 25% increase from this time last year, local authorities and power grid officials said at a press briefing on Saturday.
Some office buildings and shopping malls have adjusted air conditioning, lighting or escalators to save power, according to local media reports. One of Sichuan’s largest cities also warned of hours-long power cuts for households.
Hot weather is expected to persist through at least Wednesday in areas along the Yangtze River, according to Morgan Stanley. Data from the National Meteorological Centre showed Chengdu has had no rain for 15 days this month, while Chongqing has suffered 18 days. The drought has led to wildfires in forests of Chongqing and Sichuan last week, state media reported. The cities of Nanjing and Nanchang have had no rain at all this month.
–With assistance from Chunying Zhang, Sarah Chen, Fran Wang and Kathy Chen.
Photograph: A screen is shut down to save energy in Chengdu, Sichuan province, on Aug. 17, 2022. Photo credit: STR/AFP/Getty Images

Topics
Tech
China
