This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Generali Global Corporate & Commercial, Lockton Re and Aon.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Generali Global Corporate & Commercial Promotes 3 for German Leadership Team
Generali’s P&C unit Global Corporate & Commercial (GC&C) announced three appointments to its leadership team in Germany. Tanya Waeber has been appointed as the head of Cyber Insurance, Ralf Rebetge is the new head of Financial Lines, and Sebastian Vogel is the new head of Casualty, effective on Jan. 1, 2023.
Waeber takes over the unit’s newly established Cyber Insurance unit. Previously, she had been a senior underwriter at GC&C since 2018. With more than 12 years of international expertise in industrial insurance, Waeber has worked for – among others – Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty in the Broker Relationship Management department, in financial lines and in cyber. She holds a degree in economics from the University of Hamburg, and she is a fellow of the Charted Insurance Institute (FCII) in London.
The new head of Financial Lines, Rebetge, has more than 20 years of expertise within this sector. Before joining GC&C in 2020, he covered several management positions, including at Chubb Insurance Co. in Europe. Rebetge has been shaping the Financial Lines division for many years and has gained an international experience through several years abroad.
Vogel, the new head of Casualty, joined GC&C in 2020. Over the past 15 years he has built an international expertise in the insurance industry, covering various positions as casualty expert at Marsh and Airbus. His qualifications include a diploma in business administration, a bachelor of arts, and a Master of Laws (LL.M.) in Insurance Law from the University of Hamburg. He is a fellow of the Chartered Insurance Institute (FCII) in London.
Waeber, Rebetge and Vogel directly report to Matthias Arnold, who took over responsibility for GC&C’s underwriting in Germany last year.
Lockton Re’s Taps AXIS’ Silley for Cyber Practice
Lockton Re, the global reinsurance business of the world’s largest privately held insurance broker, announced that Matthew Silley joined as a broker in the Cyber Practice of its Specialty division.
Silley will work closely with Oli Brew who joined Lockton Re late last year and the broker’s other cyber experts in North America and Bermuda.
Silley brings to Lockton Re over 10 years of analytics and cyber experience, with different areas of focus. He was most recently Cyber Portfolio Management Lead at AXIS Capital and also held key roles at CyberCube and PwC UK. He is actively engaged in the wider cyber industry and a member of many industry groups. He is also well known for his contributions to the topic as an author and subject matter expert.
Aon Names Penalva Head of Enterprise Clients, EMEA
Insurance broker Aon plc has named Pedro Penalva as head of enterprise clients in EMEA, effective Feb. 1, 2023.
In this new role, Penalva is part of the Enterprise Client Group (ECG) Leadership Team.
Penalva joined Aon in 2010. He was most recently CEO for Iberia, Africa and Israel and EMEA’s multinational client segment leader, and he previously served as Aon’s CEO for Portugal. Penalva has more than 25 years’ experience working in global firms in financial services, insurance and consulting. Before joining Aon, he was CEO for AIG in Portugal and a member of its European Executive Committee.
Penalva holds a Master of Science degree in Engineering from Instituto Superior Tecnico in Lisbon. He also participated in the Advanced Management Program (AMP) of Northwestern University’s Kellogg Business School, and a post-graduate degree in Management from IESE Business School.
“Pedro’s new role is a natural progression in his career and builds on years of solid geography and country leadership experience. His current remit includes leading multinational clients. He will continue to help our clients make better decisions in addition to leading the Enterprise Client Group in EMEA,” said Eduardo Dávila, EMEA CEO, Aon.

Topics
Cyber
New Markets
Aon
Germany
