This edition of International People Moves details appointments at WTW and QBE Europe.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
WTW Risk & Broking Names Marsh’s Powell as Chief Claims Officer
WTW, the advisory, broking and solutions company, announced the appointment of Rob Powell as global chief claims officer. Powell will join WTW in early 2024 and report directly to Adam Garrard, global head of Risk & Broking.
Powell has extensive experience in global claims and was formerly the global chief claims officer at Marsh McLennan from 2014 where he oversaw Marsh’s claims operations, advocacy, and forensic advisory services. He also was global claims offer for Torus Insurance (July 2008 to October 2014), according to his LinkedIn profile. Prior to that, he was head of first party at Xchanging.
At WTW, Powell will focus on the broker’s end-to-end claims proposition, including aligning claims teams working with WTW’s strong specialist industry practices as well as delivering enhanced claims services through data and analytics.
QBE Europe Promotes Keller as Head of Liability
QBE Europe has appointed Erik Keller as head of Liability, effective Jan. 1, 2024.
Keller has 30 years’ experience in commercial insurance, with most of his career spent in multinational business. He has been in the role of regional underwriting manager for QBE Germany since 2017.
Before joining QBE as liability portfolio manager in 2011, Keller held various underwriting and trading roles at Chubb, RSA, and construction insurance specialist VHV, building his experience in casualty underwriting and portfolio development.
At QBE Germany, his main client focus has been on large corporate and global business. In recent years, he took part in European projects including QBE’s casualty rulebook, multinational offering, and corporate and specialty practice development.
In his new European role, Keller will align QBE’s liability strategy across European countries, harmonising processes and creating efficiencies.
Keller will report to Naintara Agarwal, director of Underwriting & Portfolio Management for Europe.
“I am absolutely thrilled to have Erik join the team. He has shown not only how he can support cooperation across European offices but also a dedication to building strong relations with brokers and clients. This, I believe, is the right approach to develop our capability and our market position in Europe,” Agarwal said.

Topics
Claims
Liability
Europe
Willis Towers Watson
