Lockton Re, the global reinsurance business of independent insurance broker Lockton, has formed Lockton Re Capital Markets (LRCM), designed to serve clients by accessing broader pools of capital, thereby providing complementary solutions to existing client offerings.
“This investment underscores our commitment to building a world class reinsurance business, capable of accessing all capital providers, across all product categories to service our clients. Pending regulatory approval, LRCM will be fully integrated into our broader reinsurance business, except as restricted by regulatory compliance. Our clients will see one client team,” commented Robert Bisset, chairman Global Retrocession & Property Specialty, Bermuda & Market Capital, Lockton Re, in a statement.
“We are committed to product innovation as we deliver the most efficient forms of capital to fund our clients’ businesses,” according to Zach Breslin, leader, Lockton Re Capital Markets.
“Over the next 18 months, as we continue to add staff, pursue and obtain regulatory approvals and build infrastructure to deliver full execution capabilities for ILS and related products, we will be onboarding execution capabilities in certain products and geographies to assist our clients through the key 2023 renewal dates,” Breslin continued.
LRCM will become operational upon receipt of all requisite regulatory approvals. Nothing herein shall be construed or interpreted as a solicitation of any transaction in a security or commodity interest as defined under applicable law.
Source: Lockton Re