The Jensten Group has completed the acquisitions of Basil Fry & Company and Bellegrove, following final regulatory approval. Collectively the deals bring an additional 5000 clients, 80 staff and £40 million ($47.9 million) gross written premiums to the Jensten Group.
Established more than 50 years ago, Surrey, England-based Basil Fry is a specialist commercial broker that provides insurance solutions to the UK’s removals, storage and self-storage sectors. Basil Fry is well known throughout these sectors and the insurance industry, due to their expertise and established cross-class schemes, said Jensten Group. The deal was first announced in December 2022.
Kent, England-based Bellegrove provides insurance and risk management solutions under the Direct Motor Trade brand to over 2500 garages across the UK, from sole-traders to national franchises. Bellegrove also has a large fleet insurance book with a focus on the chauffeur and construction sectors. This deal also was announced in December.
“When we start talking with a broker, we look at the quality of the client proposition, the capability of the team and the values and culture that underpin the business. Both Basil Fry and Bellegrove are an excellent fit on all these criteria and, following FCA approval, we’re delighted to formally welcome them to the Jensten family,” commented Alistair Hardie, Jensten Group CEO.
“These acquisitions demonstrate Jensten’s attractiveness to specialist independent brokers who are proud of what they accomplish for their clients and people and who want to join a larger business which will back them to develop and grow further.”
Source: Jensten Group

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
