AEGIS London, the London-based Lloyd’s syndicate, has established a new Data Science and Analytics team to enhance underwriting capabilities and data-driven initiatives.
Led by Giuseppe D’Angelo, head of Data Analytics and Portfolio Underwriting, the newly formed team is comprised of highly skilled experts dedicated to unlocking the full potential of AEGIS London’s vast data pool.
The team is composed of a group of data scientists, managed by AI and data science expert, Dan Hirlea, and data analysts, managed by data visualisation expert and qualified actuary, Balint Bone. Together, they bring a wealth of experience and knowledge to AEGIS London, enabling them to extract valuable insights, identify trends, and provide data-driven recommendations for underwriting and portfolio management strategies, the company said.
“Data Science and Analytics is an established field within general insurance and in recent years has become a specialism in the London market within high-performing syndicates. Skill sets are highly sought after so it’s great that we have been able to put together two strong teams under Dan and Balint,” commented D’Angelo.
“Day to day, the teams will be retrieving, manipulating, and visualising AEGIS London data, as well as helping put the power of analytics directly into the hands of business users, educating and collaborating with data champions across the business,” he added.
“Maximising the potential of data is one of my key strategic priorities. So, with this team of experts we will turn our rich pool of data into the raw material for decisions, insights and product development,” according to AEGIS London’s CEO Alex Powell.
“We’ve been through a major transformation of our finance and operational systems, which has created the platform for advanced data-based decision-making. Over time, the team will collaborate with other teams within the business to help them better understand what data they have access to and what we can achieve with it,” he continued.





Formed in 1999 and part of the long-established mutual insurance business, AEGIS Insurance Services Ltd., AEGIS London is a consistently profitable, top-quartile insurer in the Lloyd’s market, underwriting a wide range of business classes through Syndicate 1225, the company said.
Source: AEGIS London

Topics
Carriers
Excess Surplus
Data Driven
Lloyd's
London
