Lloyd’s Europe reports the appointment of Bertrand Heugues as chief underwriting officer effective 14 July.
He will be responsible for overseeing underwriting, delegated authority management, claims and the reinsurance business. Bertrand joins Lloyd’s Europe from Ageas in Brussels where he was global head of pricing and underwriting.
He has more than 18 years’ experience in the insurance industry as a non-life actuary with experience in underwriting, pricing, and risk and portfolio management.
Heugues began his career in 2005 as a commercial lines underwriter at Axa and then moved to Marsh where he was an alternative risk transfer advisor, responsible for structuring and negotiating tailor-made solutions for major customer segments and captive clients worldwide. He has also held a number of senior positions at Generali, including financial planning and analysis manager in France and chief technical officer in Belgium.
He joined Ageas in 2015 as the global head of pricing and underwriting and then became the non-life deputy chief operating officer in Portugal responsible for pricing, underwriting, claims and policy administration. He was also the head of environmental, social and governance (ESG).
Parsyl Opens London Office; Hires From Aon, McGill, Talbot
U.S.-based supply chain insurer Parsyl Inc. has opened a London office and hired a team of marine cargo professionals to serve Lloyd’s open market via Parsyl’s Syndicate 1796. Joining Parsyl are Kristopher Kimble, a director of Aon; Henry Wood, a partner at McGill; and Ed Colclough, head of cargo, fine art and specie at Talbot, an AIG company.
Parsyl insures goods in food, pharmaceuticals and life science industries as well as logistics participants within the perishable supply chain. It uses granular supply chain data to identify and manage risk and reduce waste of essential goods.
Wood joins Parsyl from McGill and Partners where he held the position of partner on the marine and energy treaty reinsurance team. He started the London cargo book of Torus/StarStone in 2012. Prior to his time with Torus/StarStone, Wood held various senior underwriting positions at Glacier Re in Zurich as well as AIG.
New underwriter Kimble brings 15 years of cargo and logistics insurance experience and joins from Aon where he was a director in the marine cargo division. At Aon, his responsibilities included broking and servicing of large and complex programs, business development and new product initiatives. Prior to joining Aon, Kimbles served as a divisional director at Willis Towers Watson in the global marine cargo practice, where he’d spent 13 years.
Colclough joins Parsyl from Talbot Underwriting where he was head of cargo, fine art and specie. Having started on Talbot’s graduate programme over a decade ago, Colclough has worked across a number of lines of business, including four years in Dubai writing Talbot’s marine and energy portfolio. He has been involved in the Lloyd’s Lab including mentoring and advisory work across various cohorts.
Parsyl’s products include ColdCoverR, a suite of connected cargo insurance products, including a parametric temperature solution. Parsyl’s insurance coverages include cargo and stock throughput, shipper’s interest, cargo legal liability, warehouse legal liability, open lot, and errors and omission.
Parsyl said its risk management technology is deployed in 80 countries and is currently monitoring vaccines for more than 200 million people.
Earlier this year, Parsyl launched a U.S.-based managing general underwriter, and expanded the scope of 1796, its syndicate at Lloyd’s of London, to support global healthcare, perishable foods and pharmaceuticals. The syndicate was first created in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.

Topics
Excess Surplus
Underwriting
Europe
Trucking
Lloyd's
London
