Sompo Int’l Promotes Hyland to President of N. America Reinsurance, Succeeding Hanke
Sompo International, the Bermuda-based provider of commercial and consumer property and casualty re/insurance, announced the promotion of Margaret Hyland to president of North America Reinsurance.
Hyland takes over from Steven Hanke who, after almost 10 years with Sompo International Reinsurance, has accepted a position with a leading brokerage firm.
Hyland reports to Christopher Donelan, chief executive officer, Global Reinsurance, Sompo International Holdings Ltd., and is based in Garden City, New York.
Sompo International Holdings Ltd. is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Sompo Holdings Inc., with more than 9,000 employees at Sompo International, 75,000 employees total worldwide, entities in over 46 countries and over US$38 billion in gross written premiums, Sompo Holdings is one of the leading property and casualty insurance groups in the world.
Kegel Appointed Managing Director, DUAL Benelux
DUAL Europe has appointed Peter Kegel as managing director of the newly formed DUAL Benelux, based in Rotterdam, Netherlands.
Establishing a base to service the Benelux market will give DUAL reach in 13 European countries, the broker said.
The DUAL Benelux team initially will offer financial lines, professional indemnity, cyber and M&A insurance solutions for medium-sized and large companies. Surety, fine art, construction and healthcare/medical malpractice will be offered later in 2023.
Kegel has 38 years’ industry experience and was previously at HDI Global for more than five years, most recently as Head of Underwriting & Distribution. Kegel also held various roles at a.s.r. mainly in the areas of Distribution and Continuous Improvement. He started his career at Aegon.
Olaf Jonda, CEO, DUAL Europe, commented: “We’re delighted to welcome Peter to the DUAL Europe team and to bring his considerable experience to our broker network in Benelux. Since we were founded in Madrid 25 years ago, DUAL Europe’s strategy has always been to deliver the best local underwriting expertise backed by the strength of our capacity provider partners. As an MGA, we are able to move swiftly to develop insurance solutions which are designed to meet today’s clients’ evolving needs and we believe this makes a real difference in the fast moving European market.”
DUAL, the specialist underwriting arm of Howden Group Holdings, is one of the world’s largest international underwriting agencies with US$3.2 billion of GWP. Established in 1998, today DUAL has over 1,300 people in 20 countries across the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific, and is one of Lloyd’s’ largest international coverholders. DUAL Europe operates from 15 locations in 11 countries.

Topics
Talent
Reinsurance
Human Resources
