This edition of International People Moves details appointments at the MGA Coalition and Hamilton Re.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Coalition Taps Munich Re’s Foster as Head of London Markets
Coalition, the San Francisco-based cyber managing general agent and cybersecurity firm, has hired Matt Foster as its head of London markets. The role places Foster as the lead underwriter for the London market and complex risks, reporting to Stephen Wares, head of International Underwriting.
Foster joins with a history of underwriting cyber across eight years at Munich Re. Beginning as a graduate trainee in 2016, he was promoted several times leading up to his most recent promotion to senior cyber underwriter in January 2023.
This appointment follows Tom Draper’s promotion to UK managing director. Draper takes on wider responsibility for Coalition’s UK operations, expanding from an insurance-focused role to a wider business role that involves the management of over 30 UK-based employees. He will report directly to Kyle Byrant, Coalition’s head of International.
“Matt is stepping into an important role in expanding our UK business. He will play a central part in supporting our broker partners with complex UK risks and with London market international wholesale business, as well as being a key leader of our underwriting team,” commented Wares.
Hamilton Re Expands Into Credit, Bond & Political Risk Reinsurance With Lottimore Appointment
Hamilton Re, the Bermuda-based insurance and reinsurance underwriting platform of Hamilton Insurance Group Ltd., announced its expansion into credit, bond and political risk reinsurance with the appointment of Sergio Lottimore to the role of vice president, Credit, Bond and Political Risk Reinsurance.
Based in Bermuda, Lottimore will report to Peter Riihiluoma, senior vice president and head of Specialty Reinsurance at Hamilton Re.
The new credit, bond and political risk reinsurance offerings will be incorporated within the specialty reinsurance portfolio, and further expands our offerings to clients.
Lottimore has 18 years of specialty and financial lines market experience. He joins Hamilton from Validus Re where he was vice president, credit lines underwriter for three years. Prior to that, he spent 15 years in roles of continuous progression at MS Amlin.
“Our expansion into credit, bond and political risk reinsurance marks a significant milestone for Hamilton Re in its commitment to building a globally diversified reinsurance offering,” said Hamilton Re CEO Megan Graves.
Hamilton underwrites risks on a global basis through its three underwriting platforms: Hamilton Global Specialty, Hamilton Select and Hamilton Re.

Topics
Reinsurance
London
