This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Lockton Re and Westfield Specialty International.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Lockton Re’s International P/C Division Appoints Moruzzi and Cope as Senior Brokers
Reinsurance broker Lockton Re announced that Daniel Moruzzi and Matthew Cope have both joined the International P/C Division in London as senior brokers.
Moruzzi brings deep understanding and technical experience of the casualty and financial lines market, having started his career at Everest Re in 1999, followed by Barbican when the Syndicate started to build the international casualty treaty portfolio. He then developed a similar book of business at Ascot, becoming class underwriter and overseeing the combined International and North American portfolios.
Moruzzi has previously chaired the IUA Professional Lines Underwriters Group panel and was deputy chair for the LMA International Casualty panel.
Cope brings over 10 years of industry experience, most recently as a casualty treaty broker at Aon. He started his career at Aspen, followed by eight years at Aon, initially at Aon Inpoint, advising re/insurer clients on corporate strategy and distribution before transitioning to the international casualty treaty team.
Cope was responsible for structuring and placing complex global casualty & financial lines reinsurance treaties for major composite insurers and Lloyd’s syndicates.
Westfield Specialty Int’l Appoints Nugent and Beltran for Professional Indemnity Team
Westfield Specialty International announced the appointments of two underwriters to its professional indemnity team.
Craig Nugent joins as a senior underwriter and Joseph Beltran as an underwriter. Both will be based in London and report to Mark Fellows, head of financial and professional lines.
Nugent has over 15 years of experience in the PI sector including at AXIS Capital where he supported the growth of its PI book and most recently, a senior underwriter at Sompo International.
Beltran has worked in the insurance industry for a decade, including underwriting roles at The Hartford and Optio Group.
“These appointments are part of a number of hires for Westfield Specialty International to kick off 2025 as we continue to deploy new capital and invest in people and products,” commented Fellows.
Westfield Specialty International is part of Westfield Specialty, a specialty insurance carrier which leverages the financial strength of Ohio Farmers Insurance Company (OFIC), a leading U.S.-based property and casualty insurance company. Syndicate 1200 is a well-established Lloyd’s of London Syndicate which was acquired by OFIC in 2023.
Westfield Specialty currently underwrites 10 lines of business in the U.S., 14 in the UK, five in Dubai, and has over 400 employees.

Topics
Agencies
Excess Surplus
Property Casualty
