Brokerslink has added six technology firms as members – the first non-broking or risk consulting firms to join the global network since its creation in 2004.
These “B.tech affiliates” signal the network’s intent to enter a new era of digitalization, said Brokerslink, noting they will be tasked with bringing the benefits of their own areas of niche expertise and technology solutions to existing partners and affiliates.
The six founding B.tech affiliates are:
“As we move forward into a new age of insurance brokerage, the pressing need for organizations to become strongly digitalized has become self-evident,” commented Anne Collette, director of Business Development & Partnerships at Brokerslink.
“The COVID pandemic has accentuated this need; those who choose not to evolve in this space will almost certainly be left behind,” she added.
“To facilitate this transition, Brokerslink has expanded its network diversity through the integration of insurtech and technology firms. Following extensive market research to select key digital solutions, the new ‘B.tech’ affiliates will provide our network with the tools to progress in areas such as user experience, operational efficiency, data interpretation and cyber security assessment, among others,” Collette said.
“We are always looking at new ways to provide our partners and affiliates with innovative solutions to the demands of broking today. Bringing in what I hope will be the first of many tech affiliates to the network is a logical step in this ongoing endeavor,” said José Manuel Fonseca, founder and chairman of Brokerslink.
“The new affiliates have been carefully chosen for their niche technical expertise and for what they can each bring to the table. Their new insights will, I am sure, provide genuine added value to the network,” he continued.
Zug, Switzerland-based Brokerslink is a global broking company that owns and manages a worldwide insurance broking network.
Source: Brokerslink

Topics
Agencies
InsurTech
Tech
