UK insurer Direct Line Group announced that Adam Winslow has been appointed as chief executive officer, subject to regulatory approval.
It is expected that he will take up the role in the first quarter of 2024, succeeding Jon Greenwood who has been acting CEO since January 2023.
Since May 2021 Winslow has led Aviva’s UK and Ireland general insurance business developing a clear strategy for both personal and commercial lines which has delivered market share expansion and improved profitability.
Prior to this he was CEO of Global Life at AIG Life and Retirement (now Corebridge), having successfully held a number of general insurance and life insurance roles in his eight years at AIG. Winslow serves on the board of the Association of British Insurers and is a non-executive director at Pool Re. Throughout his career his commitment to delivering for customers has been a clear focus, as has his energy and passion as a leader.
Jon Greenwood will remain as acting CEO until Winslow joins, continuing to focus on improving business performance. Greenwood chose not to pursue the role of CEO in order to develop a portfolio career. Greenwood will work with Winslow when he takes up the CEO role, to ensure a smooth handover and transition. After this, as planned, Greenwood intends to step back from his executive career and pursue other opportunities, including non-executive roles.
“The board is delighted to announce that Adam Winslow is to be our new CEO. Adam has deep expertise in the UK general insurance market and significant leadership experience, spanning two decades across personal and commercial lines insurance,” commented Danuta Gray, chair of Direct Line Group.
“The board conducted an extensive search and Adam Winslow stood out for his strategic understanding of the sector, outstanding track record of leading high performing businesses and his focus on driving operational excellence to consistently meet customer needs,” Gray continued.
Gray thanked Greenwood for stepping up as acting CEO “where he has shown commitment, leadership and focus to improve business performance and for his leadership of the successful commercial function before that.”
Winslow will receive an annual salary of £820,000 (US$1.04 million) and a pension allowance of 9% of salary, which is aligned to the pension allowance for the group’s workforce. He will be able to participate in the company’s annual incentive plan and long-term incentive plan, consistent with the terms of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders.
Source: Direct Line Group