Amwins Global Risks, the London-based international arm of global specialty insurance broker Amwins, announced the acquisition of Roberts Armytage & Partners (RAP), the specialist, energy and marine-focused London broker.
Financial details of the transaction were not disclosed.
As the energy sector evolves, so do the energy risks retailers have to address. This partnership will provide broader capabilities, enhanced market relationships and streamlined services for Amwins’ retail brokerage clients who require direct access to global Energy markets, including the U.S. and London, said Amwins Global Risks in a statement.
“Through the years, Amwins Global Risks has developed a best-in-class broking platform focusing on sales excellence and is now poised for accelerated growth, concentrating our attention on building the tools and culture to attract and retain top industry talent,” commented Nate Mathis, chief executive officer of Amwins Global Risks.
“Energy is a key area of focus, and we are thrilled to have RAP on board. They will help us as we build out our Global Energy Practice centered in London but with multiple international locations, spanning upstream, midstream, liability, power, downstream and renewables,” he added.
“Over the past eight years, we have successfully built a strong, independent specialty broker,” according to Mark Roberts, chief executive officer of Roberts Armytage & Partners. “During that time, we have traded with Amwins and are excited to partner with them to take our business to the next stage. We believe our two businesses are highly complementary in terms of people, clients and a focus on the highest levels of service, so we greatly look forward to adding to the expertise, relationships and scale of Amwins Global Risks going forward.”
Amwins Global Risks places more than $2 billion in premium annually, with more than 600 employees, and business from over 150 countries.
Source: Amwins Global Risks

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
