This edition of International People Moves details appointments at HDI Global Specialty, Howden RE and HDI Global Specialty.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
HDI Global Specialty UK Promotes Wilcox as Director of Delegated Authority
Specialty lines insurer HDI Global Specialty (HDI) has announced the appointment of Jade Wilcox as director of Delegated Authority, effective immediately.
Wilcox is currently HDI’s underwriting manager, US Delegated Authority, having joined the insurer in 2021 from Arch Insurance. She brings almost 20 years of London market and North American delegated authority expertise to the role.
She will be based in HDI’s London office and will report directly to Rafael Rebitzky, managing director and CUO of HDI Global Specialty UK.
“Since joining the business a little over a year ago, Jade has continued to develop and grow our US delegated authority book as well as building out our delegated authority team,” commented Rebitzky. “I have no doubt that she will continue the excellent work that has already been done by the UK delegated authority team, creating a profitable, growing business division based on an open working culture across all functions.”
A specialty lines insurer, HDI Global Specialty is owned by HDI Global SE, part of the Talanx Group. HDI Global Specialty’s focus is on writing agency and specialty insurance business with operations in nine locations and access to a global network of more than 175 countries through the HDI Global SE network.
Howden RE Hires 3 From Aon for New Disability, Life & Health Reinsurance Unit
Howden RE, part of international re/insurance intermediary, Howden Group, announced the appointments of Richard Vuurman, Theo Lutgendorff and Thomas Trompert to establish and lead Howden RE’s new Disability, Life & Health Reinsurance division, effective Oct. 1, 2022.
Vuurman joins Howden RE as executive director, and brings more than 20 years’ experience in disability, life and health reinsurance, serving latterly as managing director of life, accident, health and income protection reinsurance solutions at Aon.
Lutgendorff, who also joins as executive director, served as co-leader of Aon’s accident, health and life global client practice from early 2020 and has previously held international leadership positions at Zurich and Aon.
Trompert joins the team as divisional director, having previously held reinsurance and actuarial roles at Aon, SNS REAAL and Zwitserleven (Athora). During his tenure at Aon, Trompert also served as its global disability practice leader.
Based in the Netherlands and reporting to Howden RE CEO Bradley Maltese, the disability, life and health team will develop propositions around reinsurance and capital management for existing and future Howden RE clients globally, with its primary focus on the European market.
Established in 1994, today Howden employs more than 10,500 people worldwide. Together with network partners aligned to its specialty-led proposition, Howden operates in more than 90 territories.
IQUW Taps Volante’s Waltier for Professional Lines
Property and specialty re/insurer IQUW announced it strengthened its Professional Lines team with the appointment of Sam Waltier as underwriter.
Waltier joins IQUW from Volante, where he was a professional lines underwriter, and will report to Tristram Prior, senior underwriter, Financial Institutions/Professional Lines. Prior to Volante, Waltier held financial institutions underwriting positions with Antares Underwriting Services.
A new property, and specialty insurance and reinsurance business, IQUWs insurance and reinsurance products are distributed through Lloyd’s syndicate 1856 and IQUW Agency in Bermuda. IQUW provides insurance cover for aviation, crisis management, cyber, cargo, marine, political risk, energy, property, D&O, financial institutions, political violence and terror and war risks, plus reinsurance for property and specialty treaty.

Topics
Excess Surplus
Aon
