This edition of International People Moves details appointments at QBE and Howden’s managing general agency, DUAL Benelux.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
QBE Promotes Product Mgrs for Cyber and Mgmt. Liability/Financial Institutions
QBE European Operations has appointed Simon Højmark as Europe product manager for Cyber and Dr Patrick Seul as Europe product manager for Management Liability and Financial Institutions.
The two promotions effective 1 July will see them report to Naintara Agarwal, director of Underwriting and Portfolio Management for Europe.
Based in Copenhagen, Denmark, Højmark started with QBE 13 years ago as finance controller before becoming assistant underwriter and then underwriter for casualty and financial lines. In 2015, he launched QBE’s cyber offering in the Nordic region and in 2020, he took up the position of financial lines portfolio manager for the Nordic region. In addition to this, Højmark has served as cyber subject matter expert for Continental Europe and latterly as European technical manager for Cyber.
Højmark holds a Bachelor of Science and a Master of Science from the Copenhagen Business School and also studied at HEC Lausanne, Switzerland.
Seul has a 14-year career in insurance, most recently as portfolio manager Financial & Specialty Markets for Germany and Austria at QBE. His first role was as a directors and officers liability underwriter with Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty (AGCS) in Munich, Germany. Staying in the Bavarian capital, he moved to Aon, as a D&O broker and eventually advanced to broking manager for South Germany. He then joined AIG, overseeing D&O Commercial/Crime for Germany, Austria and Switzerland. In 2019, Seul brought his expertise to QBE, where he recently worked as financial lines portfolio manager and served as European technical manager for D&O and Financial Institutions.
Seul holds a law degree from the University of Munich and furthered his education with a Master of Business Law (MBL) and a doctorate from the University of Salzburg.
Part of QBE Insurance Group, QBE European Operations is the trading name of QBE Europe, QBE UK, QBE Underwriting Ltd., QBE Management Services (UK) and QBE Underwriting Services (UK).
Stoop Named Managing Director of DUAL Benelux
DUAL Europe, the managing general agent and Howden subsidiary, announced that Aram Stoop has assumed the role of managing director, DUAL Benelux, reporting to Olaf Jonda, CEO, DUAL Europe.
Stoop takes over this role from Peter Kegel who established DUAL Benelux in 2023 and has now left the business.
Stoop joined DUAL Europe in September 2023 as head of Marine, based in Benelux, bringing more than 20 years of experience in leadership roles in the insurance industry, including as an internationally recognized market leading underwriter in marine builders risks.
“We would like to thank Peter for his contribution and commitment to DUAL, and for creating such a strong, ambitious team and a solid, sustainable business in Benelux. I am confident that Aram will build on these foundations, further strengthening our presence in the region,” commented Jonda.
“During our first year, DUAL Benelux has attracted a team of talented underwriters, and we now have compelling products in marine, cyber, M&A, professional indemnity, engineering, surety, life science, fine art and product recall,” said Stoop. “I look forward to expanding our presence in this region to effectively meet the needs of our brokers and their clients, making the most of emerging opportunities in this competitive market.”
Established in 1998, DUAL now employs more than 1,700 people in 21 countries across the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific, and is one of Lloyd’s’ largest international coverholders. DUAL Europe operates from 19 locations in 13 countries.

Topics
Cyber
Liability
Talent
Europe
Human Resources
