Houthi militants hit a US-owned commercial vessel with an anti-ship ballistic missile on Monday, underscoring warnings that the world’s most important trade artery remains too risky for navigation.
The Gibraltar Eagle, sailing under the flag of the Marshall Islands, was struck at about 4 p.m. local time in the Gulf of Aden, US Central Command said on X. No one was injured, the vessel avoided significant damage and continued its journey.
The strike underscores warnings from the US, reported by a top industry trade group, that ships should steer clear of the Red Sea. The Department of Transportation also issued a warning to US merchant ships Monday, telling them to avoid the area until further notice.
Houthi Attacks on Shipping in Red Sea Persist; U.S. and Allies Strike Back
UK Maritime Trade Operations received a report of an incident about 57 nautical miles (105 kilometers) northwest of Assab, Eritrea where a small craft circled a ship and retreated after warning shots were fired. The ship and crew are safe.
US and UK forces bombed targets in Yemen over the past several days following months of attacks on commercial ships by the Houthis, who had been targeting vessels with any kind of connection with Israel. The Houthis took responsibility for the attack and Yahya Saree, a Houthi armed forces spokesperson, said in a televised statement that they will target US and UK vessels and warships. The attacks will continue as long as Israel continues its offensive in Gaza, he said.
Israel has vowed to destroy Hamas, which controls Gaza and has been designated a terrorist group by the US and European Union, since its fighters killed 1,200 people in a raid on Oct. 7. The Houthis began their attacks in November, not long after Israeli forces moved into Gaza.
In a move that stoked tensions in the region, Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps launched missiles at targets in northern Iraq in what it described as retaliation for terrorist attacks this month that killed almost 100 people near the burial site of General Qassem Soleimani.
Eagle Bulk Shipping, operator of the Gibraltar Eagle, confirmed the ship was hit by a projectile and sustained limited damage to a cargo hold before sailing from the area. It was carrying steel products.
The navigation warning, posted on LinkedIn by the world’s largest international shipping association Bimco, cited advice from the US Naval Forces Central Command. It warned the current instability could last for “some time.”
On Jan. 15 at approximately 4 p.m. (Sanaa time), Iranian-backed Houthi militants fired an anti-ship ballistic missile from Houthi-controlled areas of Yemen and struck the M/V Gibraltar Eagle, a Marshall Islands-flagged, U.S.-owned and operated container ship. The ship has… pic.twitter.com/gixEMaUiVT
— U.S. Central Command (@CENTCOM) Jan. 15, 2024
“Coalition forces and Bimco continue to recommend shipping companies to consider avoiding shipping operations in the area,” the trade group said.
The Yemen government criticized the Houthi attacks and called for the group to be designated a terrorist organization, saying it is manipulating the plight of the Palestinians for its own agenda, Saba news agency reported Monday.
UKMTO WARNING 009/JAN/2024 – UPDATE 001
ATTACK
Warnings – 2024 (https://t.co/5An1YH0JyE)#MaritimeSecurity#MarSecpic.twitter.com/U3Y3S3qx9V
— United Kingdom Maritime Trade Operations (UKMTO) (@UK_MTO) Jan. 15, 2024
The maritime industry had already been warned on Friday to stay away from the region, but initial guidance suggested the pause might only last for three days. That was echoed by the Department of Transportation’s own 72-hour warning on Friday, which became an indefinite one on Monday.
The attacks are driving up shipping costs as vessels avoiding the area are forced to sail thousands of miles further around Africa instead. That has raised the specter of a renewed wave of inflation and means delays to the delivery of everything from commodities to manufactured goods.
Gas tankers from Qatar are among the latest vessels that have seemingly been forced the long way around but numerous shipowners have heeded the warnings.
Denmark-based Bimco represents vessel owners and other shipping firms, counting 2,000 members in 130 countries.
Photograph: Members of the Yemeni Coast Guard affiliated with the Houthi group on patrol in the Red Sea, on Jan. 4, 2024. Photo credit: AFP/Getty Images

Topics
USA
