This edition of International People Moves details appointments at AXA XL Reinsurance and Specialist Risk Group.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
AXA XL Re Taps Swiss Re’s Schiffer as CEO, North America, Reinsurance
AXA XL Reinsurance announced it has appointed Greg Schiffer as chief executive officer (CEO), North America, Reinsurance, effective Nov. 11, 2024.
Schiffer will be responsible for driving the successful expansion of the business across North America.
He joins AXA XL Re from Swiss Re where he worked in various roles for more than 20 years. In his most recent position, he was managing director, head of US National Accounts where he led a team serving strategic clients in the US.
Prior to that role he held a number of key appointments across multiple lines of business including specialty, engineering and property.
Schiffer has a finance degree from Fordham University and is an alumnus of Harvard Business School’s Advanced Management Program.
Specialist Risk Group Announces Appointment of Collin Yap as CEO of Asia Pacific
Specialist Risk Group (SRG), the London-based specialist insurance intermediary, announced that Collin Yap has been appointed as CEO of Asia Pacific, at the conclusion of his current employment contract in the new year.
This key leadership appointment comes as part of SRG’s broader expansion into the Asia Pacific region, following the acquisition of Singapore-based retail insurance broker HL Suntek Insurance Brokers Pte Ltd, subject to the necessary regulatory approvals.
Yap brings over two decades of leadership experience in the insurance industry, having previously held prominent roles at some of the region’s top firms. Most recently, Yap served as CEO of Marsh McLennan Singapore, where he played a pivotal role in driving growth and innovation across the business.
Prior to that, he was CEO of JLT Singapore, leading the company’s efforts to deliver tailored insurance solutions to a diverse range of clients.
With deep expertise in the Asia Pacific market and a strong track record of building high-performing teams, “Collin is uniquely positioned to lead SRG’s Asia Pacific expansion and growth strategy,” SRG said.
Yap’s appointment strengthens SRG’s leadership team in Asia Pacific, following the recent acquisition of HL Suntek and the appointment of Chua Eng Leong as non-executive director. Yap will work closely with Chua Eng Leong and Lim Eng Thiam, managing director of HL Suntek, to build a business that leverages local expertise and replicates SRG’s proven success in the UK market.

Topics
Reinsurance
AXA XL
Swiss Re
