This edition of International People Moves details appointments at BMS Re, Arch Insurance International, and SiriusPoint.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Wheeler Promoted to President of BMS Re
BMS Re, the specialty reinsurance arm of the global broking group BMS, announced the promotion of Andrew Wheeler to president, effective immediately. Wheeler will report to Pete Chandler, CEO of BMS Re.
A veteran of BMS, Wheeler assumes the role with more than 20 years of experience within the organization. Wheeler’s expertise covers casualty, P&C, treaty, and refinance across both the London and US markets.
“Andrew has had an incredible career within BMS. From the day I walked through the doors, he has distinguished himself as an absolute class act, a spectacular broker, a magnificent leader, and an even better friend,” commented Chandler. “To have someone who knows BMS’ strengths inside and out is exactly what BMS Re needs to continue growing/evolving our business. I am delighted to stand shoulder to shoulder with him.”
Arch Insurance Int’l Names Heads of Onshore, Offshore Energy
Arch Insurance International announced the promotions of Hannah Hutton to head of Onshore Energy, and Michael Poulteney to head of Offshore Energy, effective immediately.
Hutton and Poulteney have both been promoted from their previous roles as underwriting managers, and they are responsible for managing underwriting activities across the London Market Onshore and Offshore Energy teams. Both portfolios provide a broad range of solutions, on a worldwide basis, across the conventional and renewable energy sectors.
Hutton and Poulteney report to Jake Gibbs, head of Marine & Energy.
Hutton has more than 20 years of insurance market experience. She has worked at Arch for 18 years and was appointed Underwriting Manager for Onshore Energy in 2020.
Poulteney brings over 15 years of experience in the Offshore Energy sector to his new position. He joined Arch in 2015 from QBE and became underwriting manager for Offshore Energy in 2019.
SiriusPoint Appoints Industry Veteran Masojada to Board of Directors
SiriusPoint Ltd., the Bermuda-based specialty insurer and reinsurer, announced it has appointed Bronek Masojada to the company’s Board of Directors, effective May 2, 2023.
An insurance industry veteran, Masojada brings to the SiriusPoint board nearly 30 years of public company executive leadership experience. Masojada spent 28 years at Hiscox Group, a global specialist insurer and reinsurer, including more than two decades as its chief executive officer. Masojada also brings a wealth of experience in driving growth and optimizing operations. Under his leadership, Hiscox significantly grew its revenue to almost $5 billion, and expanded its geographic footprint to 34 locations across the world. Currently, Masojada serves as chair of Placing Platform Limited, the industry utility driving digitization of the London insurance market.
Masojada first joined Hiscox in 1993 as group managing director. Prior to joining Hiscox, Masojada began his career at McKinsey & Co. Masojada served as deputy chairman of Lloyd’s from 2001 to 2007 and as chairman of the Lloyd’s Tercentenary Research Foundation from 2008 to 2014.
Masojada chairs the East End Community Foundation which serves residents in Newham, Tower Hamlets, Hackney and the City of London. He received a Bachelor of Science degree in Civil Engineering from the University of KwaZulu Natal, and a Master of Philosophy in Management Studies from the University of Oxford, where he was a Rhodes Scholar.
“We are delighted to welcome Bronek to the SiriusPoint board. His extensive industry and executive leadership experience complements our existing board and will be a great asset to SiriusPoint,” commented Sharon Ludlow, interim chair of the board. “With his background of company development and growth, he is exceptionally well placed to support SiriusPoint’s management team in the delivery of their strategic goals and continued focus on performance and value creation.”
Gretchen A. Hayes, as previously announced, has made the decision to not stand for re-election at the company’s 2023 meeting of shareholders. Following the appointment of Masojada and the departure of Hayes, the SiriusPoint board will consist of nine directors, six of whom are independent.