This edition of Internationl People Moves details appointments at Arch Insurance International and Willis Towers Watson (WTW).
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Arch Insurance Int’l Names AXA XL’s Longley as Head of Professional Indemnity
Arch Insurance International announced the appointment of David Longley as head of Professional Indemnity, with immediate effect.
Longley will manage Arch’s London Market SME and Large Account PI underwriting teams with a focus on further developing and expanding the portfolio. He will also provide technical oversight for Arch’s UK Regional and Australian PI underwriting teams. Based in London, he will report to Duncan Smith, head of Professional Lines.
Longley is a highly accomplished practitioner with over 25 years of PI-focused underwriting experience in both Lloyd’s and the company market. Most recently, he was deputy UK PI manager at AXA XL, having joined the company in 2011. He has also held PI underwriting roles at ACE Group and Liberty Mutual.
WTW Direct & Facultative Taps AGCS’ De Jager for European Property
WTW announced the appointment of Victor De Jager as head of Property for Europe, based in Amsterdam and reporting to Garret Gaughan, head of Direct & Facultative, and Anne Pullum, head of Europe and head of Commercial Risk and Broking (CRB), Europe.
De Jager was formerly at Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty (AGCS), where he led the Global Practice Group for Property. He has extensive experience in managing multinational accounts as well as delivering complex property placement solutions.
In his new role, De Jager will work together with the European broking leadership to ensure that the placement strategy brings the best of the global marketplace and WTW to clients. He will also be responsible for risk solution development on behalf of clients, working closely with other regional property leaders globally.

Topics
Europe
Property
AXA XL
Willis Towers Watson
