This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Aon, Fidelis Insurance and MGA DUAL Group.
A summary of these appointments follows here.
Aon Names Ferreira as LatAm CEO of Reinsurance Solutions, Muñoz Becomes Chair
Insurance broker Aon plc announced Paula Ferreira as chief executive officer of Latin America in the firm’s Reinsurance Solutions.
Reporting to Andy Marcell, global CEO of Reinsurance Solutions, Ferreira was previously Aon’s Reinsurance Solutions growth leader and president for Latin America, with 13 years at the firm and 26 years in the reinsurance industry. In her new role, she will have full P&L responsibility, leading and managing regional resources while formulating client growth strategies for the region and fostering innovative products and services that help clients to make better business decisions.
Meanwhile, Pablo Muñoz, former CEO of Latin America in Reinsurance Solutions, has been named strategic growth leader of Global Facultative Reinsurance and chairman of Aon’s Reinsurance Solutions in Latin America, also reporting to Marcell. In his 23 years of re/insurance industry experience, he has held senior roles within Aon and the wider industry, including as the firm’s global chief broking officer of Facultative Reinsurance.
In his new role, Muñoz will work closely with Andrew Laing, CEO of Global Facultative Reinsurance, and Aon’s global geographic leaders in driving the global facultative growth strategy to maximise client value worldwide. He will remain a member of the Reinsurance Solutions global executive committee and will support the leadership transition in Latin America.
“Pablo’s industry experience and leadership influence will be invaluable to the wider Facultative Reinsurance leadership team as we continue to implement its model and capabilities globally to help clients navigate volatility. A vital focus will be on developing integrated broking capabilities and enhanced specialty products to serve client needs in an even more comprehensive way, increasing their access to capital and improving their resilience.
“With these promotions, it is clear that Pablo has overseen tremendous growth during his tenure as CEO and previously as Latin America growth leader, and has built a robust platform for further growth and innovation. We are excited to welcome Pablo into the new role, and see his contributions in this new position.”
Fidelis Promotes Herget to Deputy Group Head of D&F Property
Fidelis Insurance announced the promotion of Mark Herget to the position of deputy group head of Direct & Facultative (D&F) Property.
Herget joined Fidelis in April 2020 as a D&F Property underwriter in its London office, transferring to Bermuda in November 2020. In his new role, Herget will continue to work alongside Michael Davern, who is co-deputy chief underwriting officer for Fidelis Underwriting Ltd. (FUL), and group head of D&F Property.
Herget will be responsible for leading the growth of Fidelis’ D&F writing in Bermuda.
Herget began his career at Commonwealth Insurance Co. in Vancouver, Canada in 2004, becoming the senior underwriter for production and marketing throughout the U.S., according to his Fidelis biography.
In 2012 he moved to London to work in the Lloyd’s of London marketplace where he helped build the Navigators and Vibe property portfolios.
Herget has a Bachelor of Arts degree in Education from the University of Alberta.
MGA DUAL Europe Names Ghilosso as Chair
Howden’s DUAL Group, the London-based managing general agent, announced that Maurizio Ghilosso has been named executive chair, DUAL Europe, which encompasses all of the European businesses of DUAL.
Ghilosso, who joined DUAL in 2005, will take on the chairmanship role in addition to his existing role as managing director, DUAL Italia.
“There are tremendous opportunities for DUAL to significantly grow its European businesses. Our existing teams already write just under $300 million GWP in the region, but we have ambitions to grow the business to greater than $750 million GWP by 2027,” commented Kieran Sweeney, executive chairman, DUAL Group.
“Under Maurizio’s leadership, we will successfully execute a ‘hire and acquire’ strategy that will materially broaden our product offering to our distribution partners and clients in Europe. Maurizio will lever a global underwriting platform that invests heavily in people and technology to deliver a value proposition to our capacity partners and European clients that is truly market leading,” Sweeney said. “Europe will be a key contributor as we work to achieve our broader goal for DUAL Group, to create a significant international underwriting business.”
The specialist underwriting arm of Howden Group Holdings, DUAL Group is one of the world’s largest international underwriting agencies with US$2.3 billion of GWP. Established in 1998, DUAL now has over 1,000 people in 19 countries across the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific, and is Lloyd’s’ largest international coverholder. DUAL Europe operates from 14 locations in 10 countries.

Topics
Europe
Reinsurance
Insurance Wholesale
Property
Aon
