Agile Underwriting Services has received “in-principle” approval from Lloyd’s to create Agile Syndicate 2427, subject to regulatory approvals. Syndicate 2427 will be established under the “syndicate-in-a-box” (SIAB) framework and be managed by Asta through its third-party managing agency platform at Lloyd’s.
Syndicate 2427 is targeting commencement of underwriting from April 2024, subject to approval.
Agile anticipates writing £34.1 million of gross written premium for the 2024 year of account, rising to £62.1 million for the 2026 year of account, with key growth areas being liability, professional indemnity, accident and health, property, and travel.
Through the syndicate, Agile plans to leverage its market position as a successful MGA to access niche and SME business written in the domestic APAC market, bringing this business to Lloyd’s. It plans to position the syndicate alongside its existing binders, maintaining its existing successful relationships with strong market leaders while bringing local expertise and tech distribution.
Formed in 2015 as an Australian coverholder and insurtech, Agile distributes its “Powered by Agile” platform free to brokers, enabling them to build digital strategies and brands to grow their business online. By eliminating process friction, Agile offers access to micro premiums, improving efficiency for schemes, associations, and personal/SME policies. Agile syndicate 2427’s technological infrastructure enables it to adjust premium volumes, thereby taking advantage of market hardening in a way that limits strain on its expense base.
Mark Hunt will be appointed active underwriter. Hunt has a 40-year underwriting pedigree, having commenced his career at Syndicate 386, before moving to help establish Syndicate 1156. He was also deputy active underwriter of Syndicate 2525. More recently, he held senior underwriting management roles at Zurich Australia across all classes and segments.
“Through syndicate 2427, we will facilitate access to geographies and market niches that the Lloyd’s market is currently unable to write affordably,” commented Robin Barham, CEO of Agile. “Lloyd’s industry-leading position, excellent reputation and licenses, combined with Asta’s unrivalled experience and expertise as our managing agent, make them ideal partners for us to deliver future growth.”
“APAC represents a significant opportunity for the Lloyd’s market. Innovative offerings like Agile Syndicate 2427, benefit the market greatly and their ability to underwrite at Lloyd’s as a SIAB is exactly what the SIAB model, in partnership with our third-party management capabilities, was designed to enable,” according to Lorraine Harfitt, CEO of Asta. “We look forward to working with the team and assisting them in reaching their full growth potential.”
About Agile and Asta
Based in Sydney, Agile Underwriting Services Pty Ltd. is a Lloyd’s coverholder and insurtech that underwrites a range of retail and commercial classes in the Australian and Pacific region. Agile’s digital team provides retail brokers access to over 50 products and combining quote, bind, documentation, payment and reporting functions into one efficient platform. The system allows brokers to build and manage their digital distribution business by accessing automated underwriting for niche products.
Asta Managing Agency Ltd is a leading third-party managing agent at Lloyd’s and is responsible for 11 syndicates, six SIABs and one special purpose arrangement (SPA) with capacity under management in 2024 of more than £2.5 billion.
Source: Agile and Asta

Topics
Excess Surplus
Underwriting
Lloyd's
