This edition of International People Moves details appointments at IQUW, Consilium, and Aon Commercial Risk Solutions in EMEA.
A summary of these new hires and promotions follows here.
IQUW Taps Former Carpenter Exec Fisher as President
Property and specialty re/insurer IQUW announced the appointment of industry executive Kevin Fisher as president.
Reporting to Peter Bilsby, IQUW Group CEO, Fisher will bring further re/insurance strategic client management leadership to accelerate IQUW’s profitable growth trajectory.
With over 40 years broking experience, most recently as chairman of UK and Global Specialities at Guy Carpenter, Fisher brings his extensive market experience, relationships and strategic know-how to IQUW’s leadership team. (Carpenter revealed in June 2022 that Fisher was retiring).
In addition to Bilsby, leadership includes Group CFO Richard Hextall, Director of Underwriting David Morris, Active Underwriter Steve Tebbutt and Group Head of Reinsurance and Bermuda CEO Stephen Young.
“This is a major coup for IQUW and we’re delighted to have persuaded Kevin to join our team. Having spent the last 18 months delivering our strategy to build a diverse multi-line portfolio, led by highly regarded underwriting and claims expertise, Kevin’s experience will be invaluable as we navigate our next growth phase and deepen our engagement with brokers,” commented Bilsby.
“I believe that Kevin’s knowledge and expertise, allied to our vision to combine data, automation and human expertise will enable us to differentiate and enhance our proposition to become a valued partner for brokers and their clients” Bilsby added.
About IQUW
A new property and specialty insurance and reinsurance business, IQUWs insurance and reinsurance products are distributed through Lloyd’s syndicate 1856 and IQUW Agency in Bermuda. IQUW provides insurance cover for aviation, crisis management, cyber, cargo, marine, political risk, energy, property, D&O, financial institutions, political violence and terror and war risks, plus reinsurance for property and specialty treaty.
Consilium Snags 6 Financial Lines Specialists From Ed Broking
Consilium, the international re/insurance broker, part of The Aventum Group, announced that six leading financial lines specialists are joining Consilium from Ed Broking.
Neal Hughes and Nick Bachmann, previously divisional directors at Ed are appointed managing partners at Consilium. Hughes spent six years at Ed most latterly, nine years at Willis, six years at Lockton and four years at Aon.
Bachmann, based in Guernsey, spent six years at Ed and prior to that, six years at Willis where he was also divisional director, responsible for professional and financial lines broking in the Channel Islands.
Josh Plummer has been appointed partner at Consilium. He was a senior broker producer at Ed Broking and prior to that spent six years at DUAL. Lee Rogalski, also a senior broker at Ed joins Consilium as an associate partner. Duncan Childs, wording advisory manager at Ed, and Alex Atkinson, a divisional director at Ed, are both appointed partners. Atkinson spent nearly three years at Ed and before that spent two years at Capsicum, three years with Aon and five years at Willis.
Childs is a qualified lawyer with nearly 20 years’ experience as a practicing lawyer for Eversheds and Davies Lavery, specializing in insurance contract law. He spent the last five years at Ed, responsible for developing market leading insurance contracts and claims advocacy services.
All of the new appointments will join Consilium’s “Pro Ex” team (Professional Executive Risks), managing professional & financial lines and cyber insurance globally for direct policyholder clients and retail and wholesale broking partners.
David Bearman, chief executive officer for Aventum, commented: “I’m very excited to welcome these latest appointments to our ranks. We now easily have the most experienced broking team working in the international financial centres and the investment management community. The team’s combined leadership skills and particular expertise in this market, together with our inhouse legal and exciting new actuarial capabilities, makes Consilium a world leader now in global financial lines broking.”
Aventum is one of the world’s leading and fastest growing independent specialty insurance groups, trading more than US$1.1 billion GWP annually, with 14 offices globally. Through its international re/insurance broking arm Consilium, and its global MGA operation, Rokstone, it offers clients a range of specialist and niche solutions in all lines of property/casualty re/insurance globally.
Aon Promotes 2 in Commercial Risk Solutions, EMEA
Aon has promoted two senior leaders in its Commercial Risk Solutions unit in EMEA.
Luca Tassarotti has been named head of Aon Commercial Risk Solutions EMEA. Tassarotti previously was deputy global CEO and EMEA leader of Facultative, as well as representing reinsurance in the Aon EMEA EC. In this role he already collaborated closely with the EMEA Commercial Risk Solutions leadership.
Terence Williams, has been named chief broking officer, Commercial Risk, EMEA. He has led Aon’s South African organization for the past eight years and will continue to play an important role in the country as chairperson of the Aon South Africa Board of Directors. (He will remain CEO of South Africa, fulfilling a dual role, until a successor is found.)
“We are pleased that these seasoned Aon leaders are taking on new responsibilities to continue helping organizations match risk and capital,” said Lambros Lambrou, CEO of Commercial Risk for Aon. “As risks become more interconnected, complex and volatile, we remain committed to innovating on behalf of our clients to help them address their biggest challenges and make better, more-informed decisions, guided by the expertise of these new leaders and our colleagues at Aon.”

Topics
Commercial Lines
Business Insurance
Aon
