Verisk, the global data analytics provider, has entered into an agreement to acquire Mavera, a Sweden-based insurtech firm that operates a personal injury claims management platform.
Financial details of the transaction were not disclosed.
This addition of the Nordics personal injury market leader will support Verisk’s expansion in Continental Europe and its continued growth as a technology and analytics partner to the global insurance industry.
Mavera, which was founded in 2008, has established an industry-leading position in the Nordic insurance market, thanks to its software-as-a-service (SaaS) platform and data-driven approach that efficiently tackles complex personal injury claims while retaining the “human touch.”
The company’s decision support platform is tailored to streamline claims assessments and decision-making, blending data with medical expertise from its exclusive network of medical advisers throughout the Nordic region, Verisk explained.
“Mavera has found a perfect match in Verisk as a digitally-driven company working to add value to the claims process for insurance organisations and policyholders alike,” according to Roine Gabrielsson, CEO of Mavera. “I look forward to working with my new Verisk colleagues to blend our digital expertise, market knowledge and desire to innovate as we collaborate to push the boundaries of insurance digital transformation in Europe.”
Verisk said Mavera’s technology, capabilities and access to medical expertise represent a highly complementary fit with the Verisk ecosystem of personal injury and claims solutions.
Last year, Verisk announced the acquisition of ACTINEO, a leader in the digitalization and medical assessment of personal injury claims in Germany and Austria. This also includes ACTINEO’s majority share of the joint venture subsidiary ANTEVIS, which offers innovative digital services for the medical codification and assessment of medical malpractice injury claims in Europe.
“The Nordics is a digitally mature market that is ripe for expansion and further transformation, and the Verisk ecosystem is primed to deliver this,” said Olav Skowronnek, managing director for Continental Europe at Verisk Claims Solutions. “At Verisk, we’re always keen to support a ‘right touch’ claims process where technology and data are used to support the expertise of claims professionals – and Mavera fits directly into that mindset. We’re happy to welcome them to the Verisk team.”
About Mavera and Verisk
Combining extensive industry knowledge with advanced AI technology, Stockholm-based Mavera aims to make the insurance claims process more accurate, efficient and compliant. Mavera’s decision support system (DSS) enables better decision making and business reporting for customers, which are some of Europe’s leading insurance companies.
Jersey City, N.J.-based Verisk provides data-driven analytic insights and solutions for the insurance and energy industries. Through advanced data analytics, software, scientific research and deep industry knowledge, Verisk empowers customers to strengthen operating efficiency, improve underwriting and claims outcomes, combat fraud and make informed decisions about global issues, including climate change and extreme events as well as political and ESG topics.
Source: Verisk

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
InsurTech
Claims
Tech
