Chartered insurance broker Verlingue Ltd. has established a new dedicated construction practice to serve the UK’s fast-growing construction industry. The practice, led by Harvey Monk, sales director South, brings together a team of specialists from across Verlingue in one streamlined hub.
The 12-strong team provides medium and large sized UK domiciled construction clients with comprehensive risk management advice and support as well as expertise in placing sector specific insurance programs including construction liability insurance, performance bonds, credit insurance, contractors plant and fleet and professional indemnity.
The practice also supports UK-based clients with European construction projects through the wider Verlingue group’s operations in France, Portugal, Switzerland and Italy and London Markets plus its’ partners in the Worldwide Broker Network (WBN).
Verlingue said the construction sector is set for a period of sustained growth with recent forecasts estimating the sector will grow to £476.6 billion by 2027 (according to Statista data published in January 2024).
In particular, Verlingue is seeing a significant increase in demand for advice surrounding modern methods of construction and the implications these can have on risk management and programme design.
“I am delighted to be leading this dedicated practice comprised of individuals from across our UK and European businesses. The team has significant expertise in this sector born from many years of experience. This gives us great insight into the changing needs and challenges of clients operating in this sector,” commented Harvey Monk, sales director south, Verlingue.
“This is an important development for us and reflects our established strategy of building out national practices by bringing together, and recruiting, people with specialist knowledge,”according to Mike Latham, group CEO, Verlingue.
“It follows the successful launch of dedicated practices covering the like of media, healthcare, food delivery and multinational, ensuring we continue to deliver the insurance and employee benefits solutions our clients need,” Latham added.
Headquartered in Redhill, England, Verlingue Ltd. also has offices in Manchester, Egham, and London market. It supports small corporate/large SMEs for general insurance, employee benefits and risk management services across a range of specialist sectors. The business is owned by French parent company Verlingue, an independent insurance broker that employs more than 1,200 people. With offices in France, Portugal, Switzerland, Great Britain, and Italy, Verlingue is based in Quimper, France and places premiums in excess of €2 billion.
Source: Verlingue

Topics
Agencies
Construction
