This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Aspen Insurance Holdings and CNA Hardy.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Aspen Taps SiriusPoint’s Mardon as Global Head of Property Catastrophe
Aspen Insurance Holdings Ltd. has appointed Tim Mardon as global head of Property Catastrophe Reinsurance, effective Nov. 14. Mardon will also become chief underwriting officer of Aspen Bermuda Ltd. and a member of Aspen Re’s Leadership team.
Based in Bermuda, he will report to John Welch, Chief Underwriting Officer, Reinsurance.
Mardon brings more than 30 years of reinsurance expertise to the role and joins Aspen from SiriusPoint, where he was global head of Property Reinsurance. He has previously held senior positions at Chubb Tempest Re and Torus Re in Bermuda.
Mardon will manage Aspen’s Global Property Catastrophe Reinsurance portfolio, overseeing the development and execution of its business strategy and ensuring the consistency of underwriting standards globally. He will also head the Bermuda Reinsurance team, a leading global hub for underwriting catastrophe.
Philip Hough will maintain responsibility for Other Property, in addition to leading the EMEA and Latin American businesses out of Zurich.
“We are delighted to welcome Tim Mardon to Aspen Re. Tim is an industry veteran, whose deep sector knowledge and impressive track record in property catastrophe make him well-placed to lead our global offering. I look forward to the insights he will bring as we continue to drive forward our ambitious agenda for reinsurance,” commented John Welch, chief underwriting officer, Reinsurance.
CNA Hardy Appoints Marsh’s Berman as Head of Specialty
CNA Hardy has announced the appointment of Ariel Berman to the role of vice president, head of Specialty (UK & Continental Europe).
Based in London, Berman will report to Jalil Ur Rehman, president and CEO of CNA Hardy, and Steve Goldman, senior vice president, Underwriting (Financial Lines, Healthcare and Affinity) of CNA.
Berman brings over 20 years’ insurance experience, serving in senior positions at AIG and, most recently, at Marsh where he held the position of head of Financial Institutions Division – FINPRO.
“Ariel brings strong leadership, deep technical expertise as well as considerable multi-jurisdictional knowledge and the broader experience of working in both underwriting and broking,” commented Rehman.
CNA Hardy’s Specialty division comprises the management liability, financial institutions, professional indemnity and healthcare lines of business.

Topics
Catastrophe
Excess Surplus
Property
