Trium Cyber, a Lloyd’s cyber specialist, announced that the US-based company has opened a London office to write coverage for clients based outside of the US.
“Our advanced technical underwriting, outstanding claims management and Lloyd’s A+ rated security have resulted in great demand for our services internationally,” CEO Josh Ladeau said.
The company has appointed industry veteran Amie Watson to launch Trium Cyber’s international offering. Watson previously was senior underwriter at Aspen Insurance which she joined in May 2019, according to her LinkedIn profile. Prior to that, she was a senior cyber underwriter at Liberty Mutual Insurance. She also held senior underwriting roles at XL Catlin and Aviva, her profile added.
“The opportunity to bring somebody of Amie’s caliber aboard to help execute the launch made the expansion an obvious decision,” said Ladeau.
Writing on behalf of Lloyd’s Syndicate 1322, Trium Cyber is already a keen supporter of multinational programs as they continue to develop the offering by building out a risk management solution tailored by geography and data analytics to inform underwriting and provide added value to their clients.
In business less than a year, Trium has developed a highly sophisticated policy administration system that will support tools such as automated scoring/rating/quoting, structured security data acquisition, and disciplined risk selection: collectively designed to produce competitive advantage and more accurate views of portfolio exposure.
Watson said that Trium London will be writing excess layer direct and facultative reinsurance cyber coverage for the European, Australian, Canadian, UK, Middle Eastern and Latin American markets and will be targeting a primary offering to be launched early next year.
Trium Cyber is a specialty insurance underwriter providing global cyber and technology errors and omissions insurance coverage. Trium is backed by Pelican Ventures and third-party capital, and offers Lloyd’s of London A+ rated security to its clients.
Source: Trium Cyber

Topics
Cyber
Excess Surplus
Lloyd's
London
