Delays in motor claims processing may be hiding the true threat of inflation to insurers, according to global broker WTW in a benchmarking report that concludes that UK motor claims inflation is expected to accelerate in 2022.
The inflation rate for motor claims settled in 2021was over 6%, far higher than last year’s UK general inflation rate of 2.1%, indicating a sharp rise to be expected in 2022, the report says. The average cost per claim rose to £5,349 in 2021.
The analysis by WTW indicates that a slowdown in the average time taken to settle claims, due to disruption caused by the pandemic, has until recently acted as a temporary brake on claims inflation.
However, 2022 is is likely to force a sharp correction in 2022 due to a combination of rising accident frequency after the pandemic, surging global inflation, elevated used car prices, and ongoing supply chain constraints pushing up repair costs.
“The fall in motor insurance claims during the pandemic has been widely reported, but less well understood is the bottleneck of bodily injury claims that are taking insurers longer to process due to issues such as delays in medical reports,” commented Tom Helm, head of claims consulting at WTW.
“It has inevitably been a challenge for injured parties to be examined and treated due to COVID-19 restrictions and this has led to claims processing times taking longer than at any point over the previous four years. This delay in bodily injury settlements meant that settlements in 2021 had a distinct bias to lower cost ‘vehicle damage only’ claims, temporarily preventing a sharper spike in claims inflation.”
Sabre Cites Inflation’s Impact
Separate from WTW’s report, one UK motor insurer, Sabre Insurance Group, made note of claims inflation in its first-half reporting.
The company said it saw claims inflation in 2021 of approximately 8% that continued to increase through the first half of the year and reached 10% in the first quarter. The company said it now estimates that claims inflation has reached 12%.
“The increase in claims inflation applies across all of the key drivers of claims cost, including parts, labour, credit hire, paint, car values and availability, and provision of care,” the insurer reported.
Sabre said that despite significant price increases of approximately 19% year to date, the current inflationary period will also impact its current-year loss ratio and the first half result of a 71.6% loss ratio “should not be extrapolated out to the full-year.”
The company said it is taking “assertive pricing and reserving action” in order to improve performance.
Sabre’s gross written premium for the six months to 30 June 2022 was 17.4% ahead of the comparative prior-year period at £91.8m (2021: £78.2m)