IQUW Taps Lancashire’s Warburg as Head of Reinsurance, London
Property and specialty re/insurer IQUW has named Dan Warburg as its new head of Reinsurance, London.
Based in London, he will report to Steven Tebbutt, active underwriter, IQUW Syndicate 1856 and Stephen Young, group head of IQUW Reinsurance.
Warburg will be responsible for leading and building the specialty and property reinsurance book in London, cementing the UK-based team alongside Property Lead Underwriters Ciaran Waters and Sarah Smith.
Warburg has more than 20 years’ reinsurance market experience, and he joins from Lancashire’s Syndicate 2010, where he was a reinsurance underwriter. Prior to Lancashire, he was a reinsurance underwriter with Cathedral Underwriting.
“It’s an exciting time at IQUW as we continue to build our Reinsurance division as part of our overall IQUW Group growth strategy, and I’m delighted that we have someone of Dan’s calibre in this position,” said Young. “Dan is a respected reinsurance underwriter within the Lloyd’s community and he will be a tremendous asset to IQUW as we construct our global Reinsurance portfolio and intelligently use insights to improve our decision making”.
Warburg has been a member of the Lloyd’s Market Association’s Aviation Committee since 2019, and he has chaired the committee since June 2020.
In addition to Dan’s promotion, Rene Lamer has also been appointed as head of Reinsurance, Bermuda. Rene has been an integral part of the IQUW Bermuda team since November 2021.
About IQUW
A new property and specialty insurance and reinsurance business, IQUW’s products are distributed through Lloyd’s Syndicate 1856 and IQUW Agency in Bermuda. IQUW is able to write business in Bermuda through a new coverholder agreement, IQUW Agency Bermuda Ltd., which further expands IQUW’s global platform and increases its business remit in Bermuda. IQUW provides insurance cover for aviation, crisis management, cyber, cargo, marine, political risk, energy, property, D&O, financial institutions, political violence and terror and war risks, plus reinsurance for property and specialty treaty.
Gallagher Re Names Swiss Re’s Choniski as Head of Embedded Insurance
Alexander Choniski has joined global reinsurance broker Gallagher Re in the newly created role of head of Embedded Insurance, in North America, within its Alternative Distribution vertical. Choniski will be responsible for creating an embedded insurance solution for clients in North America and will work in partnership across all parts of the global Gallagher organization.
Choniski brings more than 18 years of diverse capital markets and insurance experience to Gallagher Re. He joins from his most recent role at Swiss Re, where he built and co-ran the Strategic Partnerships mandate — Swiss Re’s largest insurtech and embedded reinsurance portfolio.
Jim Bradshaw, CEO for North America at Gallagher Re, said: “It is a pleasure welcoming Alexander to the Gallagher Re team. He has one of the most unique experience sets within this new arena, which will allow Gallagher Re to offer its clients the most sophisticated embedded solution.”
Commenting on his role and the new business venture, Alexander Choniski said: “At Gallagher, we are focused on building a solution that will be significantly more expansive than what’s currently found in the market. For instance, embedded solutions only win when you bring as much and more than the traditional channel. Many of the embedded solutions in the market struggle with this. Gallagher, as a diverse global group, already possesses many of the tools — across the entire value chain — to be successful at embedded.  And for what we lack internally, our insurance partners will help deliver, with us, the preeminent solution.”

Topics
Reinsurance
London
A.J. Gallagher
Swiss Re
