This edition of International People Moves details appointments at global specialty re/insurers Canopius and MS Amlin.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Canopius Hires CUO and CFO in Bermuda From Validus and AXA XL
Canopius, the global specialty re/insurer, announced it has strengthened its senior leadership team in Bermuda with the appointment of Jesse DeCouto as chief underwriting officer and Tonia Morgan as chief financial Officer of Canopius Reinsurance Ltd.
Morgan takes up her new role on July 1, succeeding Teresa Gallant, while DeCouto joins on Sept. 1, in a newly created role.
DeCouto joins the business as chief underwriting officer in Bermuda. Starting his career as a pricing actuary in 2000, he brings nearly 25 years of experience in the industry and was most recently global chief underwriting officer for Validus Reinsurance. DeCouto will also serve as Canopius’ global product leader for Reinsurance, overseeing the governance, performance and standards of reinsurance underwriting teams across the business.
Morgan brings over two decades of finance experience in the global reinsurance industry. She joins Canopius from AXA XL, where she was CFO of Bermuda Reinsurance. Morgan’s strong technical knowledge of US GAAP, the Bermuda regulatory environment, insurance linked securities, and re/insurance makes her perfectly suited to this role.
These are the latest in a series of senior hires at Canopius Reinsurance. Charles Cooper joined the business as CEO and global head of Reinsurance in September 2023, with the initial goal of developing the reinsurer’s Bermuda platform to expand its reach and scope in the market. As part of this, Brenton Slade joined as head of ILS in November. The business is now expanding the team with key hires with the depth of experience to execute its strategy and help build meaningful capacity among a targeted group of customers.
Both DeCouto and Morgan will report to Charles Cooper, CEO, Canopius Reinsurance Ltd. and Global Head of Reinsurance.
London-based Canopius has underwriting operations in Australia, Bermuda, Singapore, the UK and US. It underwrites through Lloyd’s Syndicate 4444 (managed by Canopius Managing Agents Ltd.); a US surplus lines insurer, Canopius US Insurance Inc.; and Canopius Reinsurance Ltd, a Bermuda-based Class 4 reinsurer.
MS Amlin Taps HDI’s Healy as Head of Property & Crisis Management Claims
MS Amlin, the global Lloyd’s re/insurer, announced the appointment of Catherine Healy as head of Property & Crisis Management Claims.
Healy will be responsible for the management and oversight of claims for commercial property, property binders, transportation, crisis management. A member of MS Amlin’s claims leadership team, she will be based in London and report to Clare Constable, chief claims officer.
With more than two decades of Lloyd’s and London market experience, Healy has a strong track-record of managing delegated authority accounts and complex claims in several jurisdictions, including the UK, North America, South America, Europe and Australia. She has experience across multiple lines of business including property, casualty, crisis response and accident & health.
Healy joins from HDI Global Specialty, where she was delegated authority claims manager  responsible for the delegated authority claims portfolio which included property, casualty, cyber, and A&H.
Prior to this, she was claims manager for Specialty Programs at Brit Global Speciality before joining Accelerant Insurance Ltd. in 2019 where she was a claims manager for property and liability accounts.
MS Amlin Underwriting Ltd. is part of the global insurance group MS&AD, with operations in the Lloyd’s of London, Middle East and Asia markets.

Topics
Claims
Property
Mississippi
AXA XL
