Insurance broker Aon plc has signed a definitive agreement to acquire UK-based insurance broker Griffiths & Armour.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
Upon completion of the transaction, Griffiths & Armour will become wholly owned by Aon UK Ltd. and is proposed to go to market as “Griffiths & Armour, an Aon company.”
Griffiths & Armour has established a market-leading presence from its base in Liverpool in the north of England as well as a strong national and international reputation. With around 200 employees, Griffiths & Armour is known for its specialist expertise in professional indemnity insurance and strength in general insurance broking.
As part of the acquisition, Aon is committed to Griffiths & Armour’s Liverpool office at Princes Dock and its strong team in Liverpool, Manchester, Dublin and London.
The acquisition closely aligns with Aon’s strategy to further expand its presence in the UK and Ireland. The combination will provide a greater breadth of solutions for clients across both Aon and Griffiths & Armour with complementary strengths that create a platform for further growth in the UK, Ireland and beyond, Aon said.
Closing of the transaction is subject to customary conditions, including regulatory approvals, and is expected to occur in the first quarter of 2025. Aon and Griffiths & Armour will continue to operate independently until the closing date.
“Becoming part of the Aon family is the result of a meticulous search for a trusted partner with whom we can work, to ensure the future success of Griffiths & Armour and to enable us to enhance, grow and expand our unique client proposition,” commented Carl Evans, CEO of Professional Risks for Griffiths & Armour. “This proposition is founded on a culture that has been created and refined over the last 90 years, of which we are immensely proud.”
Source: Aon

Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Agencies
Aon
