Aspen Insurance Holdings Ltd. and PIMCO Investment Management Co. announced the formation of Pando Re Ltd., a Bermuda-domiciled collateralized re/insurer focused on casualty business.
Under a long-term agreement, Aspen will be the sole cedent to Pando Re and PIMCO will be the exclusive investment manager for Pando Re. The cession incepted on Jan. 1, 2024.
Pando Re will participate in Aspen’s casualty insurance, global professional lines insurance, cyber insurance and casualty reinsurance business lines through a multi-year, quota share reinsurance agreement where Aspen will receive loss coverage, pay premiums, and earn commissions.
The capital to support Pando Re’s business plan is being provided by investments from a PIMCO-managed fund. Pando Re’s investment portfolio will be comprised primarily of investment-grade rated fixed income assets managed by PIMCO.
The launch of Pando Re is a continuation of Aspen’s strategy to partner with third party investors by aligning attractive underwriting risks with the right source of capital, the company said. Pando Re benefits Aspen’s casualty insurance and reinsurance platforms through a multi-year capacity agreement, while also driving continued growth of third-party capital and fee income for Aspen Capital Markets.
“We believe now is the right time to bring additional third-party capital to the casualty market and are excited to partner with PIMCO, a leading investment manager,” commented Brian Tobben, CEO of Aspen Capital Partners.
“We see a significant opportunity for this new capacity to support the needs of our clients, cedants and distribution partners against a backdrop of reduced appetite from the reinsurance market,” Tobben added.
“As a long-standing partner of insurance companies, PIMCO is excited to work with Aspen developing holistic solutions for the casualty insurance market. The nexus of insurance underwriting and investment management has been and continues to be a core focus for PIMCO,” according to Harin de Silva, managing director at PIMCO.
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. acted as exclusive financial adviser to Aspen and placement agent on the transaction.
Source: Aspen Insurance Holdings

Topics
Auto
Reinsurance
Casualty
Allianz
