This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Bermuda-based re/insurer SiriusPoint and London headquartered re/insurer IQUW.
A summary of these announcements follows here.
SiriusPoint Names Heerasing UK Country Branch Mgr, as Part of UK Realignment
SiriusPoint Ltd., a global specialty re/insurer, announced the appointment of Bobby Heerasing as SirusPoint UK Country Branch manager. Heerasing will be responsible for establishing and executing profitable growth strategies and operating plans for SiriusPoint’s London branch and sSyndicate, inclusive of the company’s reinsurance and insurance and services platforms.
Heerasing will report to both David Govrin, global chief underwriting officer, and president, Americas Reinsurance, and Monica Cramér Manhem, president of International Reinsurance & managing director of SiriusPoint International.
Heerasing joined SiriusPoint in October 2021 with over 25 years of market experience. He was most recently head of International Strategic Business Development for SiriusPoint and prior to this, was the CEO and board member of ACR Holdings and ACR Group (Asia Capital Re). Previously, he spent 18 years at Catlin as chief underwriting officer, and XL Catlin as regional underwriting director of Asia Pacific (Insurance).
As previously announced in March, SiriusPoint has entered into a strategic partnership with Mosaic Insurance, which includes an investment in Mosaic to support continued growth, providing Mosaic with access to global licenses and infrastructure, and the planned sale of its Lloyd’s managing agency. The sale is subject to Lloyd’s and regulatory approvals.
Bermuda-based SiriusPoint will retain its UK Branch operations, inclusive of Syndicate 1945.
Following, and subject to the close of the transaction as well as Lloyd’s and regulatory approvals, Robert Harman, the current SiriusPoint London CEO and managing director of Sirius International Managing Agency (SIMA), will transition to Mosaic to continue his role as chief executive officer of the managing agency.
“London is an important market for SiriusPoint,” said Govrin. “Bobby will be a critical enabler towards building a sustainable business model through profitable growth, talent development, strengthening relationships with key trading partners and an unwavering commitment to adding value for our clients.”
“Bobby is an experienced and hands-on leader who is committed to operational excellence and cultivating value creation”, said Monica Cramér Manhem. “His appointment underscores SiriusPoint’s commitment to the London market and the depth and experience of our talent, as we continue to invest in our re/insurance capabilities.”
Re/Insurer IQUW Offers Crisis Mgmt Product With Portfolio Led by Talbot’s Atkinson
Property, commercial, and speciality insurer and reinsurer IQUW has launched a new crisis management insurance class to help businesses anticipate, prevent, respond to, and recover from a wide variety of risks.
The new global crisis management portfolio will be led by experienced specialty underwriter Jon Atkinson. The roll-out of the new product offering is part of IQUW’s growth and development strategy for its specialty lines.
The new offering will provide lead market capabilities in global specialty product recall for a broad spectrum of manufacturers across new product lines, including product contamination, auto and other component part recall and first party recall risks.
Atkinson joined IQUW from Talbot Underwriting Ltd., where as senior class underwriter, he developed its crisis management capabilities.
“We are delighted to announce that Jon will be leading our crisis management portfolio at IQUW,” said Peter Bilsby, chief executive officer of IQUW. “We are building out a fantastic team of professionals to lead the development of our multi-line, diverse product offering.”
“I am delighted to join IQUW and launch the new crisis management product,” said Atkinson. “We will offer cover globally, with a specific focus on food & beverage, automotive and other safety focused manufacturing markets where we intend to be a lead market for brokers.”
He added: “IQUW has a vision for digital underwriting and, in line with this, our crisis management portfolio will combine data, automation and human expertise to deliver consistent, accurate and fast responses to support broker.”
London-based IQUW’s insurance and reinsurance products are distributed through Lloyd’s syndicate 1856. It provides insurance cover for cyber, cargo, marine, political risk, energy, property, D&O, financial institutions, political violence and terror and war risks, plus reinsurance for both property treaty International and specific to the U.S. and specialty reinsurance.

Topics
Carriers
Reinsurance
