This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Arrow Risk Management and Sompo International.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
MGA Arrow Risk Launches FinPro Practice, With 2 Hires From IGI
Arrow Risk Management, the London-based specialist MGA underwriting platform, has announced the launch of its Financial and Professional Lines Underwriting practice with the appointments of Andrew Wood and Ben Cubitt. The team will commence underwriting following the completion of their contractual notice periods.
The practice will be led by Wood, who is highly regarded in the financial and professional lines market having underwritten the class for more than 20 years. Most recently, he was a class underwriter, Financial Institutions at International General Insurance (IGI), which he joined in 2008.
Cubitt brings over 13 years of underwriting experience in the financial lines sector to the team. He joins from IGI where he was senior underwriter, Financial Institutions.
Business will be written on the Arrow MGA platform, thus taking advantage of its “best-in-class” operational services and carrier data provision – delivered through its Quiver technology model.
Commenting on the announcement, Mark Harrington, Arrow Risk’s chief underwriting officer, said: “Andrew and Ben are two extremely experienced and successful underwriters who are committed to building out a well-balanced book of business over the long-term, and we are delighted they have chosen the Arrow platform from which to achieve this aim.”
Sompo Int’l Hires Röskau as CEO of SI Insurance (Europe)
Sompo International, the commercial and consumer property/casualty insurer and reinsurer, announced the appointment of Dr. Cornelia Röskau as CEO of its European legal entity SI Insurance (Europe) (SIIE). Based in Luxembourg. Röskau will be responsible for the day-to-day management and direction of SIIE.
Röskau will succeed Thomas Brazil as he relocates to Switzerland to take on a new role as head of Strategic Implementation, Continental Europe Insurance.
Röskau has over 20 years of management and business development experience. She has held senior leadership roles in Luxembourg, Germany and Austria and joins Sompo International from Globality Health, Luxembourg, where she was managing director and a member of the board of directors.
“With two decades of international experience, Cornelia has extensive market knowledge, combined with a cutting-edge skillset and strong leadership qualities that will help drive our continued expansion in Continental Europe,” commented Ralph Brand, Sompo International’s president, Continental Europe Insurance.
“Having lived and worked in multiple countries, she has a deep understanding of European jurisdictions, regulations and cultures which will translate well for the truly international scope of this position,” Brand added.
Through its operating subsidiaries, Bermuda-based Sompo International is a global provider of commercial and consumer property and casualty re/insurance. Sompo International Holdings Ltd. is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Sompo Holdings Inc.

Topics
Talent
Europe
Insurance Wholesale
