This edition of International People Moves details appointments (and a retirement) at Beazley, Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI) and Oneglobal Broking.
A summary of these announcements follows here.
Beazley’s Eaton to Retire at End of 2022
Specialist insurer Beazley announced that after almost 16 years at the company and nearly 40 years in the insurance market, James Eaton, head of Specialty Lines, will retire at the end of the year. He will remain in charge throughout 2022 and Beazley will announce its succession plan later this year.
Eaton joined Beazley in 2006 as a programme and treaty underwriter in Specialty Lines having previously been a broker. He then led the Private Enterprise team for seven years before heading up the Specialty Lines division in 2018 when he also joined the executive committee.
“James has played a pivotal role at Beazley having overseen one of the founding divisions of the business, helping our Specialty Lines group grow into the successful business it is today. We wish him a long and enjoyable retirement and thank him for the dedication and service he has given Beazley since 2006,” said Adrian Cox, CEO, Beazley.
“James has built an outstanding Specialty Lines business delivered by a team with great depth of experience and breadth of knowledge. I look forward to sharing more details around succession later in the year, but in the meantime, our brokers and clients will experience the same high level of service under James’ continuing leadership,” commented Bob Quane, CUO, Beazley.
BHSI Promotes Flesch to Head of Marine in Germany
Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (BHSI) announced the promotion of Dirk Flesch to head of Marine in Germany. He was previously senior underwriter, Marine, at BHSI.
Flesch, who has more than 25 years of marine insurance experience, joined BHSI in 2017. In his new role as head of Marine in Germany, he will oversee underwriting of BHSI’s full line of marine products, including cargo (stock-through-put and multinational) and logistics liability.
He will continue to be based in Cologne and can be reached at +49 221 4555 1974 and via email at dirk.flesch@bhspecialty.com.
Oneglobal Latin America Appoints Generali’s Silva to Lead Regional Team
Oneglobal Broking, the London-based broker, has appointed Nery Silva as CEO of Mercosul / chief strategy officer for Oneglobal Latin America.
Silva’s appointment will contribute to Oneglobal’s strategy to build out its operations across the region and will be another step towards its ambitious growth plans. Silva will be working closely with Jose Miguel Gonzalez, chief commercial officer and the wider operational team to develop and grow Oneglobal’s LatAm footprint.
Silva has had an extensive career working for over 20 years in the Latin American insurance industry. Prior to joining Oneglobal, he was CEO of Generali – Corporate LatAm. Previous to this, he has held roles at AIG, Munich Re, Unibanco AIG and Travelers. Silva is also a member of the advisory board of Hospital Israelita Albert Einstein, in Sao Paulo.

Topics
Excess Surplus
Germany
