QBE Re has announced major changes to its organizational structure as part of the reinsurer’s strategy to further align and unify the global structure of the business under Managing Director Steve Postlewhite.
QBE Re will now coordinate the underwriting of all of its products: property, casualty, accident & health, specialty and life reinsurance, across all locations in which it operates.
“We continue to see considerable growth opportunities across the products that we offer. Our new structure will enable us to deliver on our strategic ambitions for sustainable growth,” commented Postlewhite.
“Our aim is to create a QBE Re that is easier to do business with and creates a more consistent experience globally for our clients as our teams work more collaboratively across all of our offices,” he added. “QBE Re is a strong business but in order to achieve our aspirations we need to continue to adapt and evolve to meet changing client’s needs. This is a critical step in that process.”
A number of senior executive changes have also been announced.
Peter Wilkins has been appointed to the newly created role of chief underwriting Officer, QBE Re. In his new role he will take ownership of underwriting performance, strategy, and planning. He is based in London and will continue to report to Postlewhite.
As part of the new structure, a global product leader has been appointed for each of QBE Re’s lines of business, reporting to Peter Wilkins. These are:
The global product leaders will be responsible for providing underwriting expertise, governance, and oversight for each product globally.
Local offices in London, New York, Dubai, Bermuda, and Europe (Brussels and Dublin) will continue to be led by a general manager who is responsible for strategic development, growth initiatives and delivery of the P&L in each location, working closely with the chief underwriting officer and global product leaders.
“There is a huge amount of untapped potential in QBE Re and we believe that with the right culture, structure, and operational approach, QBE Re can succeed among the biggest and best in the market,” Postlewhite added.
“We are reorganizing ourselves in a way that is recognizable to the market and brings the parts that make up QBE Re into one cohesive whole to act as clients expect. As a connected business we will be able to change the way we trade and engage with brokers and clients. We will enter such conversations with confidence – proud of our proposition and approach.”