Storm Isha is causing travel disruption and power blackouts across northern Europe, as it brought hurricane-force winds to the UK and other parts of the region.
The Met Office issued a yellow weather warning across the UK on Monday, although conditions should ease from midday. It reported wind gusts overnight as strong as 99 miles (159 kilometers) per hour. Alerts were also in place in northern France and the Netherlands.
As of last night, more than 170,000 homes, farms and businesses in Ireland were without power, with Mayo, Galway, Roscommon and Kerry among the worst impacted counties. Power cuts were also hitting thousands of homes in the UK, and some network companies say they won’t be able to restore electricity until Tuesday because it’s not safe for engineers to go out to make repairs.
After a top gust of 99mph overnight, #StormIsha is now moving away
However, it remains windy this morning with a yellow warning out for all until midday
Expect some disruption this Monday morning ⚠️ https://t.co/ejWfF75qOP
— Met Office (@metoffice) Jan. 22, 2024
Schipol airport in Amsterdam canceled about 130 flights on Monday and warned of delays as wind gusts reach more than 100 kilometers per hour. Flights were also delayed or canceled across the UK and Ireland, with severe disruptions to rail services in Scotland.
A power outage in the Dutch capital impacted about 68,000 customers and halted most trams.
While cutting off power to thousands of homes, Storm Isha also depressed energy prices across the region as wind generation soared.
Benchmark European gas futures dropping as much as 6.4% on Monday to the lowest since July. In the UK, wind power made up about half of the nation’s energy mix, according to data from National Grid Plc.
Intraday power prices in Germany fell below zero for several hours on Monday morning, dropping as low as -€14.88 a megawatt-hour on Epex Spot SE. Power prices turn negative when supply outstrips demand.
Germany remained on course for record wind power output later on Monday. Production from thousands of turbines in the nation is set to peak at 53,466 megawatts at noon Berlin time, according to a Bloomberg model. German wind output was 48,135 megawatts as of 8 a.m. Berlin time compared with the current record of 53,022 megawatts reached just before Christmas.
Nordic wind power output surged to a record 25,723 megawatts. Orange and yellow weather warnings were issued by Sweden’s national forecaster SMHI for strong winds and heavy rain.
Storm Isha heralds a period of much warmer weather across the region. London will reach 13.5C on Tuesday, while Paris will climb to 14C on Wednesday, according to Maxar Technologies Inc. The western Mediterranean will be even warmer, with Madrid hitting 18.5C on Friday.
Terrible conditions this evening in Dun Laoghaire harbour. Don’t take risks, stay safe and keep well clear from the coastline during #StormIsha @MetEireann @dlrcc @CarlowWeather @gardainfo @IrishCoastGuard pic.twitter.com/M12HH4t7dZ
— Irish Coast Guard – Dun Laoghaire (@DLCoastGuard) Jan. 21, 2024
Photograph: Waves crash against the harbor wall in Porthcawl, Wales, on Jan. 21, 2024. Photo credit: Matthew Horwood/Getty Images

Topics
Catastrophe
Natural Disasters
Hurricane
Europe
