Aon has named Andy Marcell CEO of Risk Capital (Commercial Risk and Reinsurance) and Lambros Lambrou CEO of Human Capital (Health, Wealth and Talent), effective immediately.
Both leaders will continue to report to Aon President Eric Andersen.
Aon said the move is the latest step in the evolution of its Aon United strategy and reflects growing client demand for more integrated solutions to top priorities like climate change and workforce resilience.
Marcell was previously CEO, Reinsurance Solutions, at Aon. He takes on responsibility for the firm’s unified Risk Capital capabilities as Aon expands the application of traditional reinsurance solutions to its corporate client base and increases investment in predictive data modeling. He will also oversee the creation of an advanced risk analytics team that pulls together data scientists and technologists from across Commercial Risk and Reinsurance Solutions.
Lambrou was previously CEO, Commercial Risk Solutions, at Aon. He will be responsible for helping Aon navigate the post-pandemic work environment where there is a greater focus on employee well-being. He will work with existing global leaders across Aon’s Health, Wealth and Talent (formerly HCS) teams to strengthen the connection between the firm’s Risk Capital and Human Capital capabilities, expand the application of analytics and risk modeling to people-related solutions, and advance the development of new offerings that help define the future of work.
“I’m excited by the immediate value and future potential of our combined Risk Capital team. We’re dealing with a new era of volatility and clients are looking to us to help them make better decisions that protect and grow their business,” said Marcell. “Integrated oversight of our Commercial Risk and Reinsurance Solution Lines will further strengthen our data and analytics capabilities and help us innovate faster to create enhanced solutions for our clients.”
Lambrou said, “Leading organizations know that their people are their greatest asset. In a world of increasing complexity, volatility and interconnectivity, those organizations are prioritizing the alignment, retention and productivity of their people and looking for partners that can help them make better decisions about their most important assets.”
Lambrou and Marcell will continue to serve in their existing roles until they identify replacements in this new structure.
Aon said it will continue to report performance across its Commercial Risk, Reinsurance, Health and Wealth Solution Lines.
Source: Aon plc

Topics
Leadership
Aon
