This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Conduit Re, Brit Ltd. and Oneglobal Broking.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Conduit Re Names Roberts as Chief Underwriting Officer
Conduit Re announced the appointment of Greg Roberts as group chief underwriting officer. Roberts takes over this role from Trevor Carvey, the group chief executive officer and the current group chief underwriting officer, with effect from March 1, 2022, when he will also join the executive committee.
Roberts joined Conduit prior to the IPO in 2020 to lead Conduit’s property underwriting.
“It was always our intention to split the roles of CEO and CUO to allow Trevor to concentrate on his role as CEO and the strategic development of the group,” commented Neil Eckert, group executive chairman of Bermuda-based Conduit.
“Under Trevor’s leadership, we are now through the initial foundational phase of building out both our underwriting team and portfolio. During that process, Greg has emerged as the outstanding candidate to assume the mantle of CUO and we feel that now is the right time to promote Greg into this key role,” Eckert added.
Roberts brings 20 years’ underwriting experience to Conduit. He spent 18 years of his career at MS Amlin, where he held a number of roles including leading class underwriter and head of reinsurance catastrophe modelling. Most recently he was head of North American Property Treaty, London for MS Amlin. In 2018 Greg joined Am Trust Re, where he established and ran the property reinsurance division until the sale of Syndicate 1861 in 2019.
“Greg has shown great ability and leadership right from our pre-IPO planning stages through to establishing a solid presence in the market throughout our first year of trading. He has been instrumental in putting in place so many of the essential building blocks around Conduit’s underwriting, systems and team building,” said Carvey.
“Greg has excellent commercial awareness, an acute sense of the underlying insurance dynamics and an in-depth understanding of the reinsurance marketplace in general. Transferring the CUO responsibilities to Greg is a natural progression, enabling me to concentrate on my role as group CEO as we scale our business and grow strategically for the future,” Carvey continued.
Roberts will report to Carvey. The appointment is subject to Bermuda immigration approval.
Conduit Re is a pure play global reinsurance business based in Bermuda. Conduit Reinsurance Limited is licensed by the Bermuda Monetary Authority as a Class 4 insurer.
Brit Appoints Hodgkins as Cyber Underwriting Consultant
Brit Ltd. announced the appointment of Tim Hodgkins as cyber underwriting consultant. Hodgkins joined on Feb.14, 2022 and reports to Ben Maidment, head of Global Cyber, Privacy & Technology.
Hodgkins joins from SureCloud, where he held the role of senior security consultant and focused on supporting financial services businesses manage and reduce risk across their technology landscape. He started his career at PwC, working first in the Technology Risk & Digital Audit division before becoming a senior consultant for cyber security.
In this newly created role, Hodgkins will add security and technology expertise to Brit’s market-leading cyber proposition, providing technical risk management advice and detailed insight into emerging cyber threats to support both internal and external stakeholders.
A London-based, global specialty re/insurer, Brit has a major presence in Lloyd’s of London, with significant U.S. and international reach. Brit is a subsidiary of Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd.
Oneglobal Hires de Lima as CEO of Andean Region
Oneglobal Broking, the London-based broker, announced the appointment of Ernesto de Lima as CEO of the Andean Region (excluding Chile). de Lima will report to Nicolau Daudt, CEO LatAm Oneglobal and will officially join on April 1.
de Lima is a highly experienced insurance and reinsurance professional with over 15 years in the industry and has substantial experience in the property, sabotage & terrorism and power & utility markets. He was latterly placement vice president for Arthur J. Gallagher Colombia and has held a number of senior roles at Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd., Guy Carpenter and Marsh.
Oneglobal continues the strategic build out of its international operations, which has seen expansion into Singapore, Hong Kong, Bermuda, Netherlands, Middle East and significant growth in Latin American in its first 18 months of operations. The Latin American operation is led by Daudt and Jose Miguel Gonzalez, chief commercial officer LatAm, and supported by Ricardo Retana, CEO of its Central American operation and a team of technical and operational brokers.
Oneglobal Broking is a specialist international broking company focused on the placement of open market and delegated authority business, across marine, aviation, property, casualty and specialty lines. Owned by financial services private equity firm JC Flowers, the business was founded in 2018 following the merger of the SSL and Endeavour insurance broking houses.

Topics
Cyber
Underwriting
Reinsurance
Property
London
A.J. Gallagher
