This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Willis and Arch Insurance UK.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Willis Promotes Easton to Global Head of ART and Head of Western Europe, Risk & Analytics
Willis, a WTW business, announced the appointment of Derrick Easton as the new global head of Alternative Risk Transfer (ART) and head of Western Europe for Risk and Analytics.
Easton has led Willis’ ART team in the United States since he joined the company in 2015, demonstrating his deep client focus, collaborative nature and an innovative approach towards growth. In his new dual role, Easton will focus on growing ART globally, as well as building on the Risk and Analytics delivery in Western Europe.
Easton started his career in 1994, quickly gaining experience in sales and client service before moving to a more nuanced alternative risk role at Marsh and, laterally, a role within risk finance, captive consulting and captive reinsurance at Aon.
Easton will report to John Merkovsky, global head of Risk & Analytics, and Hugo Wegbrans, head of Risk & Broking Europe.
“I am looking forward to partnering with Derrick to grow our Alternative Risk Transfer business globally and drive a renewed Risk & Analytics strategy in Europe,” commented Merkovsky. “His innovative way of working has made a significant impact on growth within the business and as a global leader, he will strengthen our Risk & Analytics capabilities and drive even greater success.”
With his dual remit, Easton will ensure “clients continue to receive value from our Risk & Analytics and alternative risk solutions,” Merkovsky said.
Arch Insurance UK Regional Division Promotes 4 Senior Leaders
Arch Insurance UK Regional Division announced the promotion of four senior members to new regional manager roles across the UK, with immediate effect.
Ian Grundy, Janice Mullan, Tony O’Reilly and Janine Starkie have been promoted to regional managers for the Midlands & the South West, South & Thames Valley, London & the Home Counties and North and Scotland, respectively. They report to Mike Bottle, managing director, Arch Insurance UK Regional Division.
In these expanded roles, they are responsible for delivering the growth objectives for their respective region and facilitating greater country-wide branch collaboration. They will also focus on delivering more comprehensive solutions and services, aligned to broking partners’ placement strategies.
In addition, they will each maintain their current branch management responsibilities for Birmingham, Southampton, St Albans and Manchester, respectively. The four members bring decades of UK insurance market experience to their regional positions.
Grundy joined Arch in 2022, having previously been a strategic relationship manager at AXA UK.
Mullan joined in 2019 from Arista Insurance where she was a broker development manager.
O’Reilly joined Arch in 2019 from Fusion/Arista where he was branch manager for London & St Albans. Starkie joined in 2023 having previously been a sales manager at AXA UK.
“Our new regional structure demonstrates our commitment to evolving alongside our broker partners,” commented Bottle.
“Ian, Janice, Tony and Janine each have proven track records of leadership and delivering high quality broker service, and will now spearhead our strategy across our nine branches. By aligning our structure with our brokers’ evolving business models, we’re able to enhance our service proposition, better address their needs and still maintain the local relationships key to our success,” he added.

Topics
Europe
Leadership
