This edition of International People Moves details appointments at Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty SE (AGCS), The Ardonagh Group, and Carbon Underwriting.
A summary of these new hires follows here.
Lillelund Named CEO of AGCS and Allianz Commercial
Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty SE (AGCS) announced that Thomas Lillelund will join Allianz as the CEO of AGCS in early 2025 once his existing commitments have ended and subject to regulatory approval. Lillelund will also assume leadership of Allianz Commercial, Allianz Group’s integrated global model for serving the commercial property & casualty insurance segment (mid-corporate, large-corporate and specialty customers).
With a career of more than 25 years in the insurance industry, Lillelund is a Danish citizen with broad international experience. Prior to his current role as CEO of AIG Europe, Middle East and Africa, he has lived and worked in Europe, the UK, Singapore, South Africa, Hong-Kong and the United States for Aspen Re, Gen Re, and Swiss Re.
He earned a bachelor’s degree in economics from The College of William & Mary (Virginia in the US) and a master’s degree in business administration from Western University (Toronto, Canada).
Ardonagh Names Allianz’s Mitchell to Spearhead Asia Growth
The Ardonagh Group, the London-based independent insurance distribution platform, announced the appointment of Mark Mitchell to support the expansion of its business operations in Asia.
Mitchell was formerly the Asia Pacific CEO of Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty and brings 35 years of industry experience, including 25 in the Asian insurance market.
Based in Singapore, Mitchell will work with Ardonagh’s businesses in the region, Envest and Price Forbes, to explore opportunities to expand their retail and wholesale broking footprint and develop new MGA capabilities.
“Mark’s deep knowledge of the Asia Pacific market landscape will allow us to identify and execute on the best opportunities to drive growth and create value for our clients and markets alike,” commented Des O’Connor, chief investment officer for Ardonagh Global Partners. “He will further strengthen our team and proposition in this exciting region, which is currently one of the fastest growing insurance markets in the world.”
Carbon Underwriting Taps Asta’s Gallagher as Head of Syndicate Management
Carbon Underwriting Ltd., the London-based, managing general underwriter and Lloyd’s syndicate, announced the appointment of Julie Gallagher as head of Syndicate Management, effective immediately.
Gallagher joins Carbon from Asta Capital Ltd., where she served as head of Client Management. She brings extensive experience in managing syndicate underwriting performance and relationships, a key asset as Carbon continues to grow its innovative insurance offerings.
In her new role, Gallagher will oversee the management and performance of Carbon’s syndicates, including the recently launched Syndicate 5757, which has received Lloyd’s approval in principle to begin underwriting 1 January 2025.
Overall, Carbon will have £400 million GWP under management in 2025 year of account, combining Syndicate 4747 and 5757.
“We are really delighted to welcome Julie Gallagher to our growing team. Her extensive expertise in syndicate management will be invaluable as we continue to expand our footprint in the international specialty market,” commented Carbon Founder and CEO Nick Tye. “The approval in principle for the launch of our second syndicate – Syndicate 5757 from January 2025 – is a major milestone for us, and Julie’s appointment reinforces our commitment to building a world-class team.”

Topics
A.J. Gallagher
Allianz
